Move, study or work abroad - Försäkringskassan
Cookies used by the Swedish Social Insurance Agency
 
On forsakringskassan.se, we use cookies to make the website work as well as possible for you.
We also use cookies for web analytics that help us to improve the website.
 
How the Swedish Social Insurance Agency uses cookies
 
Do you accept our use of cookies for web analytics?
 
Yes, I accept all cookies
 
No, I only accept necessary cookies
Go to content
Keep in mind...
You are using an older version of your web browser. This means that you might not be able to use all of the functions of the website. We recommend that you update to a newer version.
Move, study or work abroad
Here you can read about what applies to those who leave Sweden to live, study or work in another country. The information applies both if you are going to work temporarily in another country and continue to live in Sweden, and if you move permanently to another country to work. The rules differ on whether you are going to live, study or work within or outside the EU/EEA and Switzerland.
If you move abroad, you will probably no longer be insured in Sweden, but it depends on which country you are moving to and how long you will be away.
Should I report to Försäkringskassan that I am going to move, study or work abroad?
Yes, you should. You report this on My pages (Mina sidor).
            
                Provide information on work, studies or moving abroad (in Swedish)
            
            
 To the e-service
If you are unable to use My pages (Mina sidor) you can send in the form.
5459 Information about moving to or working in another country (in Swedish)
 Pdf, 852 kB.
If you are going to stay in the other country for at least one year, you should also contact the Swedish Tax Agency as this may affect your population register.
If you are going to be posted from Sweden or work in several countries, you should also apply for a statement of applicable legislation.
Family members moving with you
Your family members may not be insured in the same country as you. Therefore, all accompanying family members over 18 years of age should provide information to Försäkringskassan when you move from Sweden. Please also provide information on accompanying children under 18 years of age:
You can provide details of children for whom you are the guardian in your own report.
If you are two guardians of the children, you both need to provide details of the children in your reports.
If you are two guardians but only you provide information about moving abroad, the other guardian needs to verify the information about the children in the form in another country (5459).
5459 Information about moving to or working in another country (in Swedish)
 Pdf, 852 kB.
All adults in the family also need to report if they start working in a country other than before.
What happens after I have reported this?
Once you have reported it, we will investigate whether you will continue to be insured in Sweden during your stay abroad. For example, we look at what the purpose of your stay in the other country is and how long you are planning to be away.
Planning to move from Sweden
If you are not a Swedish citizen
 and are preparing to leave the country, you will no longer be entitled to benefits from the Swedish Social Insurance Agency (Försäkringskassan). However, you may be eligible for financial assistance from the Swedish Migration Agency (Migrationsverket) to help cover travel costs for you and your family. You can find more information and apply on the agency’s website:
Repatriation grant (migrationsverket.se)
 External link, opens in new window.
If you are a Swedish citizen
 and plan to live abroad, you need to inform Försäkringskassan. In most cases, you will not remain covered by Swedish social insurance or receive benefits while living in another country. What applies depends on where you are moving and how long you intend to stay.
For those who are planning to study abroad
        If you are studying in an EU/EEA country or Switzerland
    
    
Based on your situation, we will then assess whether you will be insured in Sweden during your studies abroad. For example, we look at which country you are receiving student aid from, where your family members live, what kind of accommodation you have in each country and how long you are planning to stay abroad. You cannot be covered by the social insurance legislation of two countries within the EU/EEA or Switzerland at the same time.
If you start working abroad during your studies, this affects which country's social insurance legislation you are subject to and thus from where you can get compensation if, for example, you get sick.
        If you are studying in a country outside of the EU/EEA or Switzerland
    
    
If you are studying in a country outside the EU/EEA and Switzerland, you are insured in Sweden as long as you are enrolled in a programme that entitles you to student aid from CSN. If are not receiving student aid, you must submit a certificate from CSN stating that your education still gives entitlement to student financial aid.
If you start working abroad, it may affect your right to be insured in Sweden. This may mean that you are not entitled to compensation from Försäkringskassan if, for example, you become ill.
Work within the EU/EEA and Switzerland
You are usually covered by the social insurance legislation of the country where you work, but if you are posted or working in several countries, different rules apply. You cannot be covered by the legislation of two countries within the EU/EEA or Switzerland at the same time. The compensation you can receive and the social security contributions you or your employer should pay varies from country to country. Therefore, find out what applies in the country whose legislation you are covered by.
If you work in more than one country at the same time or alternately you can find more information about work in several countries, click Work in several countries within the EU/EEA or Switzerland.
Work in several countries within the EU/EEA or Switzerland
 Opens in new window.
When you work remotely, the work usually counts as being performed in the country where you are physically located, even if your employer or client is in another country.
        If you are posted
    
    
If you are posted by an employer in Sweden to work in another country within the EU/EEA or Switzerland, you are usually covered by Swedish social insurance legislation. This means that you may be entitled to compensation from Försäkringskassan if, for example, you become ill.
        If you work in another Nordic country and live in Sweden (cross-border worker)
    
    
Bear in mind that if you commute between different Nordic countries, you must report this to Försäkringskassan before you begin working abroad. Contact the authority in the country where you work to find out what applies in your situation.
Authorities in the other Nordic countries
Denmark
“Udbetaling Danmark” (www.borger.dk)
 External link, opens in new window.
Norway
NAV (www.nav.nu)
 External link, opens in new window.
Finland
Folkpensionsanstalten (www.kela.nu)
 External link, opens in new window.
Iceland
Tryggingastofnun (www.tr.is)
 External link, opens in new window.
Websites about working in another Nordic country and living in Sweden.
There are three information services that can be of help if you are or are considering becoming a cross-border worker in Denmark, Norway or Finland.
Øresunddirekt (Sweden-Denmark)
Øresunddirekt (www.oresunddirekt.se)
 External link, opens in new window.
Grensetjänsten (Sweden-Norway)
Grensetjansten (www.grensetjansten.com)
 External link, opens in new window.
Nordkalottens Gränstjänst (Sweden, Finland and Norway)
Border Service (www.granstjanst.se)
 External link, opens in new window.
Work outside of the EU/EEA or Switzerland
Depending on the country you are going to work in, there are different rules that apply. When you work remotely, the work usually counts as being performed in the country where you are physically located, even if your employer or client is in another country.
        If you work in a country that Sweden has an agreement with
    
    
Sweden has social security agreements with certain countries. For the agreement to apply to you, you almost always need to be a citizen of the contracting country, Sweden or another EU country.
The agreements may cover different things, like child allowance, parental benefit, sickness benefit or pension. The rules on which country you are insured in govern only the benefits included in the respective contracts. For other benefits, the same rules apply as for countries that Sweden does not have social security agreements with.
Contact us to find out more if you are going to work in one of the following countries. The agreements are available in full in Swedish.
Laws and rules (in Swedish)
Bosnia Herzegovina
Chile
Republic of the Philippines
India
Israel
Canada
Cape Verde
Morocco
Quebec
Serbia
South Korea
Turkey
USA
        If you work in a country that Sweden does not have an agreement with
    
    
If you are planning to work outside of the EU/EEA or Switzerland, you are usually not eligible to be insured in Sweden and receive compensation from Försäkringskassan. There are a few exceptions, for example if you are posted by a Swedish employer and are going to work in another country for a maximum of one year, or if you are posted by a state. Contact us to find out what applies in your situation.
        Related links
    
Learn more about Försäkringskassan
Social insurance system
Healthcare
Information about healthcare in Sweden (1177.se)
 External link, opens in new window.
          Do you want information in another language than English?
    
        Information in other languages
        
    
Last updated: 
2025-06-19
            Your Europe (europa.eu)
        
            Help us improve (foq.youreurope.europa.eu)
        
            Contact Assistance Service (asf.youreurope.europa.eu)