Tools and services for expectant parents - Försäkringskassan
Cookies used by the Swedish Social Insurance Agency
 
On forsakringskassan.se, we use cookies to make the website work as well as possible for you.
We also use cookies for web analytics that help us to improve the website.
 
How the Swedish Social Insurance Agency uses cookies
 
Do you accept our use of cookies for web analytics?
 
Yes, I accept all cookies
 
No, I only accept necessary cookies
Go to content
Keep in mind...
You are using an older version of your web browser. This means that you might not be able to use all of the functions of the website. We recommend that you update to a newer version.
Tools and services for expectant parents
Here is our collection of services and tools to help adoptive parents plan and prepare for their child's arrival.
Checklist for expectant parents
Answer a few questions and get personal information on what you in particular need to do and know before the child is born.
Checklist for expectant adoptive parents
Calculate parental benefit
See how long you can be on leave and how much money you get every month.
            
                Calculate parental benefit (in Swedish)
            
            
 To the e-service
My pages (Mina sidor)
With an electronic ID, you can log in to My pages (Mina sidor) and take care of most of your matters that concern parental leave.
            
                Register for parental benefit (in Swedish)
            
            
 To the e-service
            
                Apply for and plan parental benefit (in Swedish)
            
            
 To the e-service
Facebook for parents
On Facebook, our administrators answer your questions about parental leave and other matters that concern you as an expectant parent.
Försäkringskassan questions on Facebook
 External link, opens in new window.
Calculate housing allowance
Families with children that have a low income may be entitled to housing allowance. Check if this applies to you.
Calculate housing allowance
        Related links
    
Learn more about Försäkringskassan
Social insurance system
Healthcare
Information about healthcare in Sweden (1177.se)
 External link, opens in new window.
          Do you want information in another language than English?
    
        Information in other languages
        
    
Last updated: 
2024-11-19
            Your Europe (europa.eu)
        
            Help us improve (foq.youreurope.europa.eu)
        
            Contact Assistance Service (asf.youreurope.europa.eu)