If you get sick - Försäkringskassan
Cookies used by the Swedish Social Insurance Agency
 
On forsakringskassan.se, we use cookies to make the website work as well as possible for you.
We also use cookies for web analytics that help us to improve the website.
 
How the Swedish Social Insurance Agency uses cookies
 
Do you accept our use of cookies for web analytics?
 
Yes, I accept all cookies
 
No, I only accept necessary cookies
Go to content
Keep in mind...
You are using an older version of your web browser. This means that you might not be able to use all of the functions of the website. We recommend that you update to a newer version.
If you get sick
Here, you can learn what to do if you get sick during your studies.
What should I do if I become sick?
        If you are studying only
    
    
If you are a student and become so sick that you cannot study at all, you can keep your student aid. You will also be provided with the other security rules of the Swedish Board of Student Finance that apply to illness.
This is what you do:
1. Report your sickness
Submit a sickness report the first day of your illness.
            
                Report your sickness (in Swedish)
            
            
 To the e-service
2. Apply to keep your student aid during your illness
            
                Apply for sickness benefit (in Swedish)
            
            
 To the e-service
If you think you will be well again within a week
, you can wait to apply until you have recovered. We can then process your case faster.
If you think you will be sick for more than a week
, you can apply immediately.
If you cannot apply via My pages (Mina sidor), call the Customer Centre at 
0771‑524 524
 to request a form. The form is not available for download via the website.
3. Send in a doctor's certificate
If you are sick for more than 14 days, you must send in a medical certificate with information about your illness or injury.
You can submit your medical certificate via Mina intyg on 1177 Vårdguiden.
Intyg (1177.se)
 External link, opens in new window.
If you have received a paper copy of your medical certificate, send the original to:
Försäkringskassans Inläsningscentral
839 88 Östersund.
        If you are studying full-time and are on sick leave half-time
    
    
In some cases, you can keep your student aid if you are on half-time sick leave. This applies to:
if you are studying full-time
if you have a disease that entails a risk of one or more longer periods of illness.
You need to be able to show that you have such a disease. You can do this by submitting a medical opinion Special high-risk protection that your doctor has filled in.
Apply using the form:
7444 Apply for study aid during sick period — Education allowance (KPU) during sick period, sickness benefit for work in addition to studies (in Swedish)
 Pdf, 1 MB.
        If you are working and studying
    
    
If you are both working and studying and get sick, you can both keep your student aid and receive sickness benefit. To be eligible for sickness benefit, you must earn at least SEK 11,300 per year. Read more about what applies to maintaining your student aid under If you are studying.
This is what you need to do to apply for sickness benefit:
1. Report your sickness
Submit a sickness report the first day of your illness.
            
                Report your sickness (in Swedish)
            
            
 To the e-service
2. Apply for sickness benefit
You apply on My pages (Mina sidor).
            
                Apply for sickness benefit (in Swedish)
            
            
 To the e-service
If you think you will be well again within a week
, you can wait to apply. If you apply after you have recovered, we can process your case more quickly.
If you think you will be sick longer than a week,
 you can apply immediately.
If you cannot apply via My pages (Mina sidor), call the Customer Centre at 
0771‑524 524
 to have a form sent to your home. You cannot download the form here on the web since it contains some pre-filled information.
3. Send in a doctor's certificate
If you are sick for more than 7 days, you must send in a doctor's certificate with information about your illness or injury. Most regions can issue electronic certificates. You can then submit your medical certificate via Mina intyg on 1177 Vårdguiden. This speeds up the process and then there is no need to send the certificate by post.
Intyg (1177.se)
 External link, opens in new window.
If you have received a paper copy of your medical certificate and if for some reason it has not been submitted to us electronically, send the original to:
Försäkringskassans Inläsningscentral
839 88 Östersund.
Once you have applied for sickness benefit this way, the same rules apply for you as for an employed person receiving sickness benefit.
Sickness benefit
        Related links
    
Learn more about Försäkringskassan
Social insurance system
Healthcare
Information about healthcare in Sweden (1177.se)
 External link, opens in new window.
          Do you want information in another language than English?
    
        Information in other languages
        
    
Last updated: 
2024-11-07
            Your Europe (europa.eu)
        
            Help us improve (foq.youreurope.europa.eu)
        
            Contact Assistance Service (asf.youreurope.europa.eu)