If you are participating in a programme through the Public Employment Service - Försäkringskassan
Cookies used by the Swedish Social Insurance Agency
 
On forsakringskassan.se, we use cookies to make the website work as well as possible for you.
We also use cookies for web analytics that help us to improve the website.
 
How the Swedish Social Insurance Agency uses cookies
 
Do you accept our use of cookies for web analytics?
 
Yes, I accept all cookies
 
No, I only accept necessary cookies
Go to content
Keep in mind...
You are using an older version of your web browser. This means that you might not be able to use all of the functions of the website. We recommend that you update to a newer version.
If you are participating in a programme through the Public Employment Service
If you are a job seeker and are participating in a programme through the Public Employment Service, you may be eligible for compensation from Försäkringskassan. Here, you can read about how much money you can receive and how to apply.
        What are the Public Employment Service’s programmes?
    
    
The Public Employment Service’s programmes are
labour market training
work experience
introduction programme
preparation activities
the job and development programme
job guarantee for young people
project with labour market focus
support to start up a business
validation.
The Public Employment Service will help you find a spot in a programme. After that you apply for compensation from Försäkringskassan for the time you participate in the programme.
        Are you participating in the introduction programme?
    
    
If you were recently granted a residence permit and are participating in the Public Employment Service’s introduction programme, you can receive introduction benefit and possibly even introduction benefit for housing or supplementary introduction benefit. Read more on the introduction programme page. The information is available in Swedish, English and Arabic.
If you are participating in an introduction programme through the Public Employment Service
How do I apply?
Once you are registered in a labour market programme through the Public Employment Service, you can apply for compensation from Försäkringskassan. You apply for one month at a time retrospectively.
Apply by the 7th in order to receive the money on the 26th
You apply for a month during the subsequent month. If we receive your application by no later than the 7th, you will receive the money on the 26th of the same month. For example, you apply for March by no later than 7 April to receive your money on 26 April.
If we receive your application between the 8th and the last day of the month, the money will be paid on the 26th of the subsequent month. If you apply later than that, you can only receive compensation if there are special circumstances.
If you are unable to apply in the e-service on My Pages, you must apply on a form to receive compensation. This can happen, for example, if we have not had time to receive information from the Public Employment Service about your programme for a certain month. If you do not apply on time, you risk missing out on your compensation.
Apply on My pages (Mina sidor)
            
                Apply for activity grant, development allowance and introduction benefit (in Swedish)
            
            
 To the e-service
Once you have logged in to the e-service, you can chat with an administrator and get help filling out the application.
        If you cannot use My pages (Mina sidor)
    
    
You can apply using the form:
7114 Application for activity grant, development allowance and Introduction benefit (in Swedish)
 Pdf, 846 kB.
Disbursement
Information about when you receive your payments:
Utbetalningsdatum och handläggningstider
 (in Swedish)
 External link.
We check to ensure that you are receiving the right compensation
We assume that you are careful when you apply for compensation, so that you do not miss anything. However, to ensure that you receive the right compensation, we sometimes check the information in your application before payment. We sometimes also check applications for prior periods if we find that something has gone wrong.
If you discover that you have received too much compensation, you can report this on My pages (Mina sidor) or phone 
0771‑524 524
.
If you are receiving too much money, you may be obligated to pay money back. If we suspect that you have intentionally provided the wrong information and therefore received compensation to which you are not entitled, we will investigate it as a benefit violation. That could lead to a police report.
        Related links
    
Learn more about Försäkringskassan
Social insurance system
Healthcare
Information about healthcare in Sweden (1177.se)
 External link, opens in new window.
          Do you want information in another language than English?
    
        Information in other languages
        
    
Last updated: 
2025-02-27
            Your Europe (europa.eu)
        
            Help us improve (foq.youreurope.europa.eu)
        
            Contact Assistance Service (asf.youreurope.europa.eu)