Health care in Sweden for visitors from the EU/EEA - Försäkringskassan
Cookies used by the Swedish Social Insurance Agency
 
On forsakringskassan.se, we use cookies to make the website work as well as possible for you.
We also use cookies for web analytics that help us to improve the website.
 
How the Swedish Social Insurance Agency uses cookies
 
Do you accept our use of cookies for web analytics?
 
Yes, I accept all cookies
 
No, I only accept necessary cookies
Go to content
Keep in mind...
You are using an older version of your web browser. This means that you might not be able to use all of the functions of the website. We recommend that you update to a newer version.
Health care in Sweden for visitors from the EU/EEA
If you are insured in another country within the EU/EEA you may receive both emergency health care and planned medical treatment in Sweden.
Planned medical treatment means that you travel to Sweden in order to receive medical treatment there.
Sweden has two national contact points for cross-border health care. Försäkringskassan is responsible for providing general information to persons who are insured in Sweden.
If you are insured in another country within the EU or EEA, you should contact the National Board of Health and Welfare (Socialstyrelsen). Socialstyrelsen can provide you with information about rules and regulations concerning health care in Sweden. You can also contact Socialstyrelsen if you have questions or comments about planned medical treatment in Sweden.
Healthcare for visitors to Sweden (socialstyrelsen.se)
 External link, opens in new window.
        Related links
    
Learn more about Försäkringskassan
Social insurance system
Healthcare
Information about healthcare in Sweden (1177.se)
 External link, opens in new window.
          Do you want information in another language than English?
    
        Information in other languages
        
    
Last updated: 
2025-06-25
            Your Europe (europa.eu)
        
            Help us improve (foq.youreurope.europa.eu)
        
            Contact Assistance Service (asf.youreurope.europa.eu)