Maintenance support when the child does not live with you - Försäkringskassan
Cookies used by the Swedish Social Insurance Agency
 
On forsakringskassan.se, we use cookies to make the website work as well as possible for you.
We also use cookies for web analytics that help us to improve the website.
 
How the Swedish Social Insurance Agency uses cookies
 
Do you accept our use of cookies for web analytics?
 
Yes, I accept all cookies
 
No, I only accept necessary cookies
Go to content
Keep in mind...
You are using an older version of your web browser. This means that you might not be able to use all of the functions of the website. We recommend that you update to a newer version.
Maintenance support when the child does not live with you
Maintenance support is paid for a child when the parents do not have enough money to pay child support or where there is little chance of the parents reaching an agreement.
If you do not pay child support for your child or if you cannot afford to pay, your child may be eligible to receive maintenance support from Försäkringskassan. This is paid out to the other parent. You are then obliged to pay back all or part of this amount to Försäkringskassan.
How much do I have to pay?
It depends on your taxed income and how many children you are obliged to pay child support for. The amount will never exceed the amount that Försäkringskassan has paid out to your child.
Call the Customer Centre at 
0771‑524 524
 to find out what applies in your situation.
        If your child lives in Sweden but you live in another country
    
    
You are obliged to pay child support regardless of whether you live in the same country as your child or not.
If your child lives in Sweden and is receiving maintenance support from Försäkringskassan, you must pay child support to Försäkringskassan instead of the child’s other parent.
If Försäkringskassan receives an application for the setting and/or collection of child support from a country with which we have a cooperation agreement, then we will contact you.
Call the Customer Centre at 
0771‑524 524
 to find out what applies in your situation.
        If you live in Sweden but your child lives in another country
    
    
You are obliged to pay child support regardless of whether you live in the same country as your child or not.
If you are unable to pay child support Försäkringskassan can assist you in finding out whether you can apply to modify your child support. In some countries, it may cost money to modify the child support. In such cases, you can apply for legal aid in that country.
Call the Customer Centre at 
0771‑524 524
 to learn more or to request assistance in applying for a modification.
What should I do?
Around the 25th of each month, you will receive a giro in-payment form. You must pay the money by the end of the month.
If you have paid in time to Försäkringskassan for twelve months in row
If you have paid the right amount in time for at least twelve months in a row, Försäkringskassan will examine whether there are reasons to continue paying maintenance support. You and the other parent will then receive a letter about this.
If there is no reason for Försäkringskassan to pay maintenance support, you must instead pay child support to the other parent. You must yourselves agree on an amount of child support. For the arrangement to be valid, you must have an agreement. With the “Calculate child support” (Beräkna underhållsbidrag) tool, you will get a suggested amount for child support and an agreement template.
You can use the calculation and agreement template to create a valid agreement on child support.
            
                Calculate child support
            
            
 To the e-service
What do we do if we cannot reach an agreement?
The municipality offers free cooperation discussions to help resolve issues related to custody, visitation, residence and support of the child. There, you can get help to work together to find solutions that are in the child's best interest without having to go to court. Contact your municipality.
If you are unable to agree on matters relating to the child, you can go to the District Court. Contact a legal representative to find out what you should do.
If you can not agree on child support the child may be entitled to maintenance support from Försäkringskassan.
        What happens when the child turns 18?
    
    
You are responsible for your child's livelihood even if he or she does not live with you. When your child reaches the age of 18, you and your child can agree that you pay child support directly to the child. The child is entitled to child support latest up until their 21st birthday. If the child has finished upper secondary school, he/she is no longer entitled to child support.
If you and your child cannot reach an agreement regarding child support or if you cannot afford to pay, your child can apply for extended maintenance support from Försäkringskassan. You must then pay back all or part of the amount to Försäkringskassan.
        Related links
    
Learn more about Försäkringskassan
Social insurance system
Healthcare
Information about healthcare in Sweden (1177.se)
 External link, opens in new window.
          Do you want information in another language than English?
    
        Information in other languages
        
    
Last updated: 
2025-02-28
            Your Europe (europa.eu)
        
            Help us improve (foq.youreurope.europa.eu)
        
            Contact Assistance Service (asf.youreurope.europa.eu)