The coronavirus covid-19 applicable regulations - Försäkringskassan
Cookies used by the Swedish Social Insurance Agency
 
On forsakringskassan.se, we use cookies to make the website work as well as possible for you.
We also use cookies for web analytics that help us to improve the website.
 
How the Swedish Social Insurance Agency uses cookies
 
Do you accept our use of cookies for web analytics?
 
Yes, I accept all cookies
 
No, I only accept necessary cookies
Go to content
Keep in mind...
You are using an older version of your web browser. This means that you might not be able to use all of the functions of the website. We recommend that you update to a newer version.
The coronavirus covid-19 applicable regulations
December 21, 2022
Due to the coronavirus/covid-19, the Swedish Social Insurance Agency has received questions about the rules for disease carrier allowance, travel allowance, sickness benefit and care of a sick child (vab).
If you are a disease carrier
As of 1 April 2022 Covid-19 is no longer classified as a generally dangerous illness or a danger to society. This means that if you have been infected by the SARS-CoV-2 virus after 31 March 2022, you can no longer receive disease carrier allowance.
Illness
        Deduction from sick pay during the qualifying period
    
    
If you fall ill after the 1 April 2022, you can no longer receive reimbursement for deduction of sick pay.
        Doctor’s certificate
    
    
If you fall ill on the 1 April 2022 or later, you need a doctor´s certificate day 8 when you apply for sickness benefit.
If you or a close relative belong to an at-risk group
        Benefit for people belonging to an at-risk group
    
    
From 1 April 2022 it is no longer possible to receive benefit for people belonging to an at-risk group.
        If you have to refrain from working in order to avoid infecting a close relative belonging to an at-risk group
    
    
As of 1 April 2022 it is no longer possible to receive a benefit if you have to refrain from working in order to protect a close relative belonging to an at-risk group.
 
If you have sustained an occupational injury
        Occupational injury caused by covid-19
    
    
Covid-19 is an infectious disease that can lead to an occupational injury. If you have been infected by the coronavirus and developed covid-19 it can be considered an occupational injury.
This is the case if you:
have treated, handled or taken care of people, animals or material that was contagious, or
worked in a laboratory where the coronavirus was being handled.
were infected by the SARS-CoV-2 virus when Covid-19 was classified as a generally dangerous illness or a danger to society, and sustained injuries due to your illness.
Covid-19 was classified as a generally dangerous illness or a danger to society from 2 February 2020 until 31 March 2022.
If you were injured at work
If you are or will become a parent
        Temporary additional payments for families with housing allowance
    
    
Families with housing allowance will receive a temporary additional payment every month until 31st December 2024 No application is necessary. You will automatically receive the payment.
The temporary additional payment will be 40 percent of your usual housing allowance.
        Care of a sick child (vab)
    
    
If your child is ill or is a disease carrier, you may receive care of a sick child (vab) if you need to be at home to care for your child.
You need to submit a certificate signed by a nurse or a doctor if your child is ill or infected for more than 7 days.
Remember that you must apply no later than 90 days after the first day you were at home with the child.
As of 1 April 2022, you can no longer apply for compensation if your child´s school or preschool closes. If the school or preschool closed prior to this date, you can apply for compensation. However, you must apply no later than 90 days after the event.
Compensation information
Care of a sick child (vab)
        Preventive benefit for parents of children who have recently been seriously ill
    
    
From 1 April 2022 it is no longer possible for parents of a child who has been seriously ill, to receive a preventive benefit in order to stay at home to shield the child.
If you are a job seeker
        Participant in programs at the Swedish Public Employment Service
    
    
Deduction from sick pay has been re-introduced
As of 1 April 2022, a deduction from sick pay will be reintroduced if you participate in a program at the Swedish Public Employment Service. This means that you will not receive activity compensation during the first day that you are ill.
Remember to report to the Swedish Public Employment Office (Arbetsförmedlingen) the first day you fall ill. If you are ill for more than 7 days, you have to have a doctor´s certificate.
The Swedish Public Employment Agency has more information on their website about what you need to do it you fall ill.
Report absence when you are sick
 External link, opens in new window.
        Related links
    
Learn more about Försäkringskassan
Social insurance system
Healthcare
Information about healthcare in Sweden (1177.se)
 External link, opens in new window.
          Do you want information in another language than English?
    
        Information in other languages
        
    
Last updated: 
2025-03-03
            Your Europe (europa.eu)
        
            Help us improve (foq.youreurope.europa.eu)
        
            Contact Assistance Service (asf.youreurope.europa.eu)