Parental benefits – Checklist - Försäkringskassan
Cookies used by the Swedish Social Insurance Agency
 
On forsakringskassan.se, we use cookies to make the website work as well as possible for you.
We also use cookies for web analytics that help us to improve the website.
 
How the Swedish Social Insurance Agency uses cookies
 
Do you accept our use of cookies for web analytics?
 
Yes, I accept all cookies
 
No, I only accept necessary cookies
Go to content
Keep in mind...
You are using an older version of your web browser. This means that you might not be able to use all of the functions of the website. We recommend that you update to a newer version.
Parental benefits – Checklist
There are a lot of things to keep track of when you are on parental leave. Here are a few things to keep in mind – before and after you send us an application.
New job or salary? Double‑check that all the information displayed in the online application system (Mina sidor) are correct. In particular, details of your income and employer.
New or last-minute vacation plans? Submit a new application to replace the initial one. The new application should not include your vacation days, because you are not entitled to parental benefit whilst on holiday.
Moving or travelling? Contact us if you are moving abroad or travelling to a non-EU country, as this may affect your eligibility for benefits.
Made a mistake? Contact us if you spot any errors, as it is not possible to alter an application that has already been signed and sent to us.
Best of luck with your application!
            
                Anmäl föräldrapenning
            
            
 To the e-service
            
                Anmäl höjd lön om du får föräldrapenning eller sjukpenning
            
            
 To the e-service
Keep in touch
You are required by law to certify that the information attached to an application is correct. As well as update them because it often affects the previous ruling and calculations.
Print out forms are available if you are not able to access our digital services. Apply for social benefits online by logging on to our e-service (Mina sidor) or our app (Försäkringskassans app) with a Swedish electronic identification.
Our e-services are unfortunately only available in Swedish. But you can always get assistance by booking a meeting, in person or online, or by calling our Call Centre. We are also available on social media and at local offices (service centre) throughout Sweden.
Contact us
Information in other languages
        Related links
    
Care of sick child
Care of sick child (vab) – Checklist
Social benefits for parents
Parents
About the social insurance system
Social insurance system
Other government agencies
Swedish Migration Agency (migrationsverket.se)
 External link, opens in new window.
Swedish Tax Agency (skatteverket.se)
 External link, opens in new window.
Companies Registration Office (bolagsverket.se)
 External link, opens in new window.
National Government Service Center (statenssc.se)
 External link, opens in new window.
Last updated: 
2025-01-27
            Your Europe (europa.eu)
        
            Help us improve (foq.youreurope.europa.eu)
        
            Contact Assistance Service (asf.youreurope.europa.eu)