Assistance allowance for an adult - Försäkringskassan
Cookies used by the Swedish Social Insurance Agency
 
On forsakringskassan.se, we use cookies to make the website work as well as possible for you.
We also use cookies for web analytics that help us to improve the website.
 
How the Swedish Social Insurance Agency uses cookies
 
Do you accept our use of cookies for web analytics?
 
Yes, I accept all cookies
 
No, I only accept necessary cookies
Go to content
Keep in mind...
You are using an older version of your web browser. This means that you might not be able to use all of the functions of the website. We recommend that you update to a newer version.
Assistance allowance for an adult
You can receive assistance allowance in order for you to hire personal assistants if you have a disability.
Am I eligible for assistance allowance?
You are eligible for assistance allowance if you
are covered by the Act regarding Support and Service for Persons with Certain Functional Impairments (LSS)
have a major and permanent disability
are not yet 66 years old when you apply
are insured in Sweden.
In order for you to receive assistance allowance, you must also need personalized support for more than 20 hours per week for assistance with any of the following:
breathing
personal hygiene
eating meals
getting dressed and undressed
communication with others
support to prevent injury as a consequence of mental disability
continuous support due to a medical condition.
It is when you need assistance with these needs for more than 20 hours per week that you can receive assistance allowance from Försäkringskassan. If you receive assistance allowance for these needs you may also receive allowance for other personal needs.
If you need assistance with needs for less than 20 hours a week, you can instead apply to receive personal assistance through your municipality. The municipality can also help with, for example, attendant service and relief service.
        What is the Act regarding Support and Service for Persons with Certain Functional Impairments (LSS)?
    
    
To be eligible for personal assistance, you must be covered by the Act regarding Support and Service for Persons with Certain Functional Impairments (LSS). You are covered if you belong to one of the following groups according to the Act regarding Support and Service for Persons with Certain Functional Impairments (LSS).
individuals with mental impairments, autism or autism-like conditions
individuals with significant and lasting intellectual disability after brain damage at an adult age caused by external violence or physical disease.
individuals with other permanent physical mental disability that is obviously not due to normal ageing, if such disability is major and causes significant difficulties in daily life and the person thereby has a significant need for support and service.
How do I apply?
Here we describe how it works to apply for assistance allowance from Försäkringskassan.
1. Ask for a doctor's statement
Contact a doctor to get a statement describing your disability and how it affects you.
2. Apply on My pages (Mina sidor)
Log in to My pages (Mina sidor) to apply. Since we always contact you after receiving your application, it is alright if your application is brief or if something is missing.
            
                Apply for assistance allowance (in Swedish)
            
            
 To the e-service
        If you cannot apply using My pages (Mina sidor)
    
    
Apply using the form:
3062 Application for assistance allowance (in Swedish)
 Pdf, 785 kB.
3. Send in the doctor's statement
Send in your medical statement to Försäkringskassans inläsningscentral 839 88 Östersund.
4. We will contact you and schedule a meeting
We will confirm your application within a week. If we need to talk to you we will schedule a meeting. At the meeting we will discuss what type of assistance you need and how much. The meeting can either be over the telephone, in your home or at Försäkringskassan's office. You can bring other people to the meeting for support, such as a family member.
5. You receive a decision
It normally takes 4 months before you receive a decision on assistance allowance. However, it may take longer if the necessary documents are missing.
        If you have assistance before you received a decision
    
    
If you already have personal assistance and incurred a cost for this before you received your decision on assistance allowance, you must report the assistance to Försäkringskassan during the time we are processing your application.
Report the assistance by submitting
documents proving that your personal assistants have been hired
an agreement between you and a provider
time reports
invoices
We must receive the report no later than on the 5th of the month after you began receiving assistance to be able to pay out allowance.
6. Choose how your assistance will be arranged
If you have not already done so, choose how the assistance will be arranged. You can purchase personal assistance services from an assistance provider, employ your assistants yourself, or combine these alternatives. You must also decide whether you want the money to be paid to you or directly to a provider. Inform us of your choice by using My pages (Mina sidor).
            
                Report provider and payment recipient of assistance allowance (in Swedish)
            
            
 To the e-service
        If you cannot use My pages (Mina sidor)
    
    
Inform us by sending in your choice on the form.
3079 Report provider and payment recipient of assistance allowance (in Swedish)
 Pdf, 788 kB.
        Choosing a provider
    
    
Municipalities wishing to carry out activities as an assistance provider need to report to the Inspectorate for Health and Care (IVO) while private providers must have permission from the National Board of Health and Welfare or the Inspectorate for Health and Care (IVO). Försäkringskassan cannot recommend any particular provider. The Health and Social Care Inspectorate (IVO) has a register of all licensed assistance providers.
If you choose to receive the compensation yourself and purchase assistance services from a provider, you need to check that the company has a corporate tax certificate. Assistance companies must have a corporate tax certificate. This is not required of cooperative or economic associations, but there is more administrative work involved for the individual receiving assistance if the organisation does not have a corporate tax certificate.
If you choose to be your own provider and hire your assistants, it gives you a large number of options, but also requires a great deal of time for administration work.
        If you hire an assistance provider
    
    
When you have selected an assistance provider you must send the agreement between you and the provider to us.
        If you arrange assistance yourself
    
    
If you choose to arrange the assistance yourself, there are a few things that you need to know about how to proceed before the assistance starts, for example that you must report the activity to IVO, the Inspectorate for Health and Care and be registered as an employer with the Swedish Tax Agency.
7. Send in the invoice and time report
        If you have an assistance provider
    
    
Once a month you must submit an invoice for assistance allowance.
            
                Invoice for assistance performed (in Swedish)
            
            
 To the e-service
It is not possible you to use the service on My pages (Mina sidor) until you have received a decision from us.
If you are unable to use My pages (Mina sidor) you can report the information by using the form
3057 Invoice for assistance performed (in Swedish)
 Pdf, 757 kB.
3057 Help to complete the form (in Swedish)
 Pdf, 333 kB, opens in new window.
We must receive the information no later than on the 5th of the second month to which the invoice relates.
        If you arrange assistance yourself
    
    
You must send in an invoice and time report once a month.
Invoice
You can submit your invoice on My pages (Mina sidor).
            
                Invoice for assistance performed (in Swedish)
            
            
 To the e-service
You cannot use the service on My pages (Mina sidor) until you have received a decision from us.
If you cannot use My pages (Mina sidor), you can use the form instead.
3057 Invoice for assistance performed (in Swedish)
 Pdf, 757 kB.
3057 Help to complete the form (in Swedish)
 Pdf, 333 kB, opens in new window.
Time reporting
Unfortunately, it is not possible to submit the time report via My pages (Mina sidor) yet. Fill in and submit the form instead.
3059 Time report for assistance allowance (in Swedish)
 Pdf, 1 MB.
3059 Help to complete the form (in Swedish)
 Pdf, 159 kB, opens in new window.
Försäkringskassan must receive the forms no later than on the 5th of the second month following the month to which the invoice relates.
8. Disbursement
Information about when you receive your payments:
Utbetalningsdatum och handläggningstider
 (in Swedish)
 External link.
9. Always report changes
Call your case administrator if you:
move to another residence
need more or less assistance
receive some other form of support, e.g. from the municipality or the county
move to an assisted living facility
are being cared for at a hospital
are receiving assistive devices.
travel abroad and this affects how your assistants work.
Please also let us know if a licensed healthcare professional determines that you need some form of medical intervention. Some changes may affect the right to assistance allowance and if you have received money that you have not been entitled to, you may have to pay it back. Report the change to Försäkringskassan as soon as possible, but no later than 14 days after you learned about the change.
Assistive devices are provided by the municipality or region (county council). You can read more about assistive devices at
1177 vårdguiden (1177.se)
 External link, opens in new window.
        Related links
    
Learn more about Försäkringskassan
Social insurance system
Healthcare
Information about healthcare in Sweden (1177.se)
 External link, opens in new window.
          Do you want information in another language than English?
    
        Information in other languages
        
    
Last updated: 
2024-10-10
            Your Europe (europa.eu)
        
            Help us improve (foq.youreurope.europa.eu)
        
            Contact Assistance Service (asf.youreurope.europa.eu)