Sickness benefit in special cases - Försäkringskassan
Cookies used by the Swedish Social Insurance Agency
 
On forsakringskassan.se, we use cookies to make the website work as well as possible for you.
We also use cookies for web analytics that help us to improve the website.
 
How the Swedish Social Insurance Agency uses cookies
 
Do you accept our use of cookies for web analytics?
 
Yes, I accept all cookies
 
No, I only accept necessary cookies
Go to content
Keep in mind...
You are using an older version of your web browser. This means that you might not be able to use all of the functions of the website. We recommend that you update to a newer version.
Sickness benefit in special cases
Sickness benefit in special cases is compensation that you can receive if you have received activity compensation up to and including the month before you reached the age of 30 and have low or no sickness benefit qualifying income (SGI).
Can I receive sickness benefit in special cases?
You can receive sickness benefit in special cases if you
have protected your right to receive sickness benefit, for example by having gainful employment, being registered at the Swedish Public Employment Service or participating in a programme with the Swedish Public Employment Service and receiving activity support
are so ill that you are unable to apply for a job or take up a job. You must be ill for at least one quarter of the time that you would have otherwise been looking for a job or working
if you are insured in Sweden, which is usually the case if you live here.
In connection with your application, Försäkringskassan requires a medical certificate with information about your illness or injury.
How do I apply?
Apply on Mina sidor (My Pages).
            
                Apply for sickness benefit in special cases (in Swedish)
            
            
 To the e-service
You may be entitled to residential supplement
Residential supplement is a supplement to sickness benefit, sickness benefit in special cases, rehabilitation benefit and rehabilitation benefit in special cases that is paid monthly. It is there to make sure that anyone who no longer has activity compensation and housing allowance is able to have unchanged income protection. Residential supplement is paid out monthly in arrears.
You are eligible for residential supplement if you
have had activity compensation up to and including the month before you reached the age of 30
have protected your opportunity to receive residential supplement, for example by having gainful employment, being registered at the Swedish Public Employment Service or participating in a programme with the Swedish Public Employment Service and receiving activity support
are receiving sickness benefit, sickness benefit in special cases, rehabilitation allowance or rehabilitation allowance in special cases.
How much do I receive?
How much you receive depends on whether you are married or unmarried, how many children there are in the household and your allowance qualifying income. The residential supplement will be reduced if you receive housing allowance.
How do I apply?
Apply on Mina sidor (My Pages).
            
                Apply for residential supplement (in Swedish)
            
            
 To the e-service
        Related links
    
Learn more about Försäkringskassan
Social insurance system
Healthcare
Information about healthcare in Sweden (1177.se)
 External link, opens in new window.
          Do you want information in another language than English?
    
        Information in other languages
        
    
Last updated: 
2025-02-28
            Your Europe (europa.eu)
        
            Help us improve (foq.youreurope.europa.eu)
        
            Contact Assistance Service (asf.youreurope.europa.eu)