10 days - Försäkringskassan
Cookies used by the Swedish Social Insurance Agency
 
On forsakringskassan.se, we use cookies to make the website work as well as possible for you.
We also use cookies for web analytics that help us to improve the website.
 
How the Swedish Social Insurance Agency uses cookies
 
Do you accept our use of cookies for web analytics?
 
Yes, I accept all cookies
 
No, I only accept necessary cookies
Go to content
Keep in mind...
You are using an older version of your web browser. This means that you might not be able to use all of the functions of the website. We recommend that you update to a newer version.
10 days
The non-pregnant parent can receive compensation for 10 days of leave in connection with the birth of the child. These days provide the opportunity to be present at the delivery and to take care of other children in the family.
Can I receive compensation for the 10 days?
Yes, if
you are insured in Sweden. You usually are if you live or work here.
the child lives in Sweden or within the EU/EEA or Switzerland.
You can also receive compensation for 10 days if the pregnant parent is single and you are a close relative.
How do I apply?
1. Apply
Once you have begun working or seeking work again, log in to My pages (Mina sidor) to apply for money for the days you have been on leave. You must take out the 10 days within 60 days from returning home from the delivery. Remember to apply no more than 90 days from the first day you were home with the child.
            
                Apply for the 10 days (in Swedish)
            
            
 To the e-service
2. Disbursement
Information about when you receive your payments:
Utbetalningsdatum och handläggningstider
 (in Swedish)
 External link.
When will the disbursement appear on My pages (Mina sidor)?
On My pages (Mina sidor), you can see the disbursement under Disbursements (Utbetalningar) 1 bank day before the money arrives.
        Related links
    
Learn more about Försäkringskassan
Social insurance system
Healthcare
Information about healthcare in Sweden (1177.se)
 External link, opens in new window.
          Do you want information in another language than English?
    
        Information in other languages
        
    
Last updated: 
2025-01-28
            Your Europe (europa.eu)
        
            Help us improve (foq.youreurope.europa.eu)
        
            Contact Assistance Service (asf.youreurope.europa.eu)