Contact days - Försäkringskassan
Cookies used by the Swedish Social Insurance Agency
 
On forsakringskassan.se, we use cookies to make the website work as well as possible for you.
We also use cookies for web analytics that help us to improve the website.
 
How the Swedish Social Insurance Agency uses cookies
 
Do you accept our use of cookies for web analytics?
 
Yes, I accept all cookies
 
No, I only accept necessary cookies
Go to content
Keep in mind...
You are using an older version of your web browser. This means that you might not be able to use all of the functions of the website. We recommend that you update to a newer version.
Contact days
Contact days are for parents of children covered by the Act regarding Support and Service for Persons with Certain Functional Impairments (LSS). The days are intended to be used by the parents to gain knowledge about how to support their child. You can receive compensation for a maximum of 10 contact days per child and year.
Can I receive compensation for contact days?
You can receive compensation for contact days if you
have a child up to the age of 16 who is covered by LSS
have a sickness benefit qualifying income (SGI)
refrain from working or cannot receive unemployment benefit
are insured in Sweden.
When can I receive compensation for contact days?
You can utilise contact days when you must
participate in parent education (e.g. courses arranged by a disability organisation)
visit the child's preschool or school
participate in an activity arranged by the school.
The child does not have to participate (e.g. in a school visit or courses) in order for you to receive compensation.
Both parents can receive compensation for the same child and time.
How do I apply?
You apply in the same way as when caring for a sick child but you tick the box to indicate that you are applying for compensation for contact days.
1. Apply
Once you are back at work or begin to seek work again, you must apply for compensation.
            
                Apply for temporary parental benefit (vab) (in Swedish)
            
            
 To the e-service
2. Disbursement
Information about when you receive your payments:
Utbetalningsdatum och handläggningstider
 (in Swedish)
 External link.
        Related links
    
Learn more about Försäkringskassan
Social insurance system
Healthcare
Information about healthcare in Sweden (1177.se)
 External link, opens in new window.
          Do you want information in another language than English?
    
        Information in other languages
        
    
Last updated: 
2025-03-04
            Your Europe (europa.eu)
        
            Help us improve (foq.youreurope.europa.eu)
        
            Contact Assistance Service (asf.youreurope.europa.eu)