Adoption allowance - Försäkringskassan
Cookies used by the Swedish Social Insurance Agency
 
On forsakringskassan.se, we use cookies to make the website work as well as possible for you.
We also use cookies for web analytics that help us to improve the website.
 
How the Swedish Social Insurance Agency uses cookies
 
Do you accept our use of cookies for web analytics?
 
Yes, I accept all cookies
 
No, I only accept necessary cookies
Go to content
Keep in mind...
You are using an older version of your web browser. This means that you might not be able to use all of the functions of the website. We recommend that you update to a newer version.
Adoption allowance
Adoption allowance is money you can receive to cover some of the expenses that arise when you adopt a child from a different country.
Am I eligible for adoption allowance?
You are eligible for adoption allowance if
the adoption has been approved by the Swedish Intercountry Adoptions Authority (MIA) or a Swedish court. A foreign adoption decision is also acceptable if the country is party to the Hague Convention.
the adoption was arranged by an organisation authorised by MIA
the child is a foreign citizen
the child is not a resident of Sweden at the time hi or she comes into your care
the child is not yet 10 years old
you are a resident of Sweden both when the child comes into your care and when the adoption becomes officially recognised in Sweden. If there are two parents involved, this applies to both of you.
How do I apply?
Once your adoption has been officially recognised in Sweden, you can apply for adoption allowance. You must apply within one year from the date the adoption became officially recognised.
1. Apply
Apply using the form.
2540 Application for allowance upon international adoption
 Pdf, 736 kB.
Send in the form together with:
a copy of the adoption decision or a document that confirms the adoption
a copy of a document that confirms which organisation arranged the adoption.
2. Disbursement
Information about when you receive your payments:
Utbetalningsdatum och handläggningstider (in Swedish)
 External link.
        Related links
    
Learn more about Försäkringskassan
Social insurance system
Healthcare
Information about healthcare in Sweden (1177.se)
 External link, opens in new window.
          Do you want information in another language than English?
    
        Information in other languages
        
    
Last updated: 
2024-10-10
            Your Europe (europa.eu)
        
            Help us improve (foq.youreurope.europa.eu)
        
            Contact Assistance Service (asf.youreurope.europa.eu)