Care of close relative - Försäkringskassan
Cookies used by the Swedish Social Insurance Agency
 
On forsakringskassan.se, we use cookies to make the website work as well as possible for you.
We also use cookies for web analytics that help us to improve the website.
 
How the Swedish Social Insurance Agency uses cookies
 
Do you accept our use of cookies for web analytics?
 
Yes, I accept all cookies
 
No, I only accept necessary cookies
Go to content
Keep in mind...
You are using an older version of your web browser. This means that you might not be able to use all of the functions of the website. We recommend that you update to a newer version.
Care of close relative
An employee can be off work to care for a close relative who is seriously ill. The employee can then apply for compensation from Försäkringskassan.
When is the employee entitled to leave?
The employee has the right to be on leave from work during the time that he/she receives benefit for care of closely related persons from Försäkringskassan.
Who is considered a closely related person?
Closely related persons are persons in the employee’s family and close relatives but also other persons who he/she have close relationships with, for example friends or neighbours.
What is meant by seriously ill?
Seriously ill refers to conditions that may be life threatening.
Who does what?
The employee must:
Notify you as the employer as soon as possible that he/she will need to go on leave.
Apply for compensation from Försäkringskassan.
The employer must:
You do not need to do anything, it is the employee who has contact with Försäkringskassan.
Försäkringskassan must:
Assess the right to benefit for care of closely related persons and pay compensation if all conditions have been met.
        Related links
    
Learn more about Försäkringskassan
Social insurance system
Healthcare
Information about healthcare in Sweden (1177.se)
 External link, opens in new window.
          Do you want information in another language than English?
    
        Information in other languages
        
    
Last updated: 
2025-06-25
            Your Europe (europa.eu)
        
            Help us improve (foq.youreurope.europa.eu)
        
            Contact Assistance Service (asf.youreurope.europa.eu)