Sickness benefit for individuals with a limited company - Försäkringskassan
Cookies used by the Swedish Social Insurance Agency
 
On forsakringskassan.se, we use cookies to make the website work as well as possible for you.
We also use cookies for web analytics that help us to improve the website.
 
How the Swedish Social Insurance Agency uses cookies
 
Do you accept our use of cookies for web analytics?
 
Yes, I accept all cookies
 
No, I only accept necessary cookies
Go to content
Keep in mind...
You are using an older version of your web browser. This means that you might not be able to use all of the functions of the website. We recommend that you update to a newer version.
Sickness benefit for individuals with a limited company
Sickness benefit is money you can receive if you are unable to work due to illness.
If you own a limited company, you are considered an employee of your own company. This means that the first 14 days you are sick, your limited company pays you sick pay instead of your regular salary. After that, you can apply for sickness benefit from Försäkringskassan.
Am I eligible for sickness benefit?
You are eligible for sickness benefit if you:
are unable to work during your regular working hours due to illness. You must be away at least one-fourth of your regular working hours to be able to receive sickness benefit.
lose work-related income that is sickness benefit qualifying income.
are insured in Sweden.
How do I apply?
1. Report your sickness to your limited company
Report your sickness to the limited company the very first day you are sick. The first 14 days you are sick, your limited company pays you sick pay instead of your regular salary.
2. Report your sickness to Försäkringskassan
Once you have been sick for 14 days, you must report your sickness to Försäkringskassan. Since you are considered an employee of your limited company, you must report your sickness to Försäkringskassan yourself. The sickness report must be submitted no later than the 21st sick day. You can report your sickness using the Employer Service (Arbetsgivartjänsten), our e-services for employers.
            
                Report your sickness (in Swedish)
            
            
 To the e-service
3. Apply on My pages (Mina sidor)
Once you have submitted a sickness report to Försäkringskassan, you can apply for sickness benefit via My pages (Mina sidor).
            
                Apply for sickness benefit (in Swedish)
            
            
 To the e-service
        If you cannot use My pages (Mina sidor)
    
    
If you cannot or do not want to apply via My pages (Mina sidor), call the Customer Centre at 
0771‑524 524
 to have a form sent to your home. You cannot download the form here on the web since it contains some pre-filled information.
4. Send in doctor's certificate
Försäkringskassan needs a doctor's certificate with information about your illness or injury. In most counties, electronic certificates can be issued. You can then send in your certificate on Mina intyg on 1177 Vårdguiden. This speeds up the process and you then do not have to send the certificate by post.
Intyg (1177.se)
 External link, opens in new window.
If you have received your doctor's certificate on paper and for some reason it has not been sent electronically to us, send the original to:
Försäkringskassans Inläsningscentral 
839 88 Östersund
5. Disbursement
Information about when you receive your payments:
Utbetalningsdatum och handläggningstider
 (in Swedish)
 External link.
If you want to change any aspect of your sick leave
        If you want to extend your sick leave
    
    
Send in your new doctor’s certificate. You can do this digitally on Mina intyg on 1177 Vårdguiden.
Intyg (1177.se)
 External link, opens in new window.
If you answered yes when asked whether a new doctor’s certificate should serve to extend the sick leave when you applied for sickness benefit, then you do not need to apply.
If you answered no, an application form for extended sickness benefit will be sent to your home. You cannot apply for extended sickness benefit via Mina sidor (My pages).
        If you want to change the scope
    
    
If you begin working part time or in any other way change the scope of your sickness absence, you must notify us of this. This is done most easily via My pages (Mina sidor).
            
                Change scope of sickness benefit (in Swedish)
            
            
 To the e-service
        If you want to report your recovery
    
    
If you recover before your sickness period has run out, report your recovery on My pages (Mina sidor).
            
                End sickness benefit (in Swedish)
            
            
 To the e-service
If you cannot use My pages (Mina sidor), call the Customer Centre at 
0771‑524 524
 or contact your personal administrative officer.
What happens if I am sick for a long time?
If you are sick for a long time, you will be assigned a personal administrative officer. The administrative officer will contact you after you have received your first disbursement. He/she can help you with anything related to your sickness benefit. The amount of contact you have with your administrative officer depends on how much help you need and how long your sickness absence is expected to last.
        What happens if I am still on sick leave after 1 year?
    
    
When you have received sickness benefit for 364 days, your compensation will be reduced from the normal level of 80 percent to a continuation level of 75 percent of your sickness benefit qualifying income (SGI).
Begreppet allvarlig sjukdom (Rättsligt ställningstagande 2025:03)
 Pdf, 245 kB, opens in new window.
        If you are invited to a meeting with the Swedish Public Employment Service
    
    
If you are at risk of no longer being able to receive compensation from the health insurance system, you will be invited to a meeting with the Swedish Public Employment Service. The meeting will involve a social insurance investigator from Försäkringskassan and an employment officer. The meeting is an opportunity for you to receive support on your journey from sick leave to working life.
        Related links
    
Learn more about Försäkringskassan
Social insurance system
Healthcare
Information about healthcare in Sweden (1177.se)
 External link, opens in new window.
          Do you want information in another language than English?
    
        Information in other languages
        
    
Last updated: 
2025-06-19
            Your Europe (europa.eu)
        
            Help us improve (foq.youreurope.europa.eu)
        
            Contact Assistance Service (asf.youreurope.europa.eu)