Special dental care allowance - Försäkringskassan
Cookies used by the Swedish Social Insurance Agency
 
On forsakringskassan.se, we use cookies to make the website work as well as possible for you.
We also use cookies for web analytics that help us to improve the website.
 
How the Swedish Social Insurance Agency uses cookies
 
Do you accept our use of cookies for web analytics?
 
Yes, I accept all cookies
 
No, I only accept necessary cookies
Go to content
Keep in mind...
You are using an older version of your web browser. This means that you might not be able to use all of the functions of the website. We recommend that you update to a newer version.
Special dental care allowance
Special dental care allowance is a subsidy you can receive if you have certain illness or a certain disability that you negatively affect your dental health.
Can I receive special dental care allowance?
You can receive special dental care allowance if you
turn at least 23 years of age during the year
are insured in Sweden. You are if you live or work here. There are some exceptions to this rule.
Even if you reside in a country other than Sweden, you may be eligible for special dental care allowance in certain circumstances.
You may be eligible for the special dental care allowance if one of the following applies to you:
dry mouth due to long-term use of medication
dry mouth due to radiation treatment in the ear, nose, mouth or throat region
Sjögren's syndrome
chronic obstructive pulmonary disease having been prescribed oxygen or nutritional drink
cystic fibrosis
ulcerous colitis
Crohn's disease
intestinal failure
corrosion on the teeth and anorexia nervosa, bulimia nervosa or gastroesophageal reflux disease
difficult-to-treat diabetes
are undergoing dialysis treatment
a suppressed immune system due to use of medication,
have undergone an organ transplant.
Your dentist or dental hygienist will decide whether you are eligible for the allowance. In order for them to be able to assess whether you are entitled to the allowance, a basis of assessment is needed. The documentation required depends on what illness or disability you have. More information on these rules can be found on the National Board of Health and Welfare's website.
The National Board of Health and Welfare's regulations concerning special dental care allowance (SOSFS 2012:16) (socialstyrelsen.se)
 External link, opens in new window.
What can I use the special dental care allowance for?
You can use the allowance for preventive dental health measures, such as check-ups and tooth cleaning. You can also use the special dental care allowance as partial payment for subscription dental care.
How do I use my special dental care allowance?
To be able to use your special dental care allowance, you must go to a dentist or dental hygienist affiliated with the national dental care subsidy. Most are.
You do not need to apply for the allowance, but the dentist or dental hygienist must have a document confirming your illness or disability. If your dentist or dental hygienist determines you are entitled to the allowance, it is deducted from your bill.
        Related links
    
Learn more about Försäkringskassan
Social insurance system
Healthcare
Information about healthcare in Sweden (1177.se)
 External link, opens in new window.
          Do you want information in another language than English?
    
        Information in other languages
        
    
Last updated: 
2025-06-25
            Your Europe (europa.eu)
        
            Help us improve (foq.youreurope.europa.eu)
        
            Contact Assistance Service (asf.youreurope.europa.eu)