Parental benefit before the child is born - Försäkringskassan
Cookies used by the Swedish Social Insurance Agency
 
On forsakringskassan.se, we use cookies to make the website work as well as possible for you.
We also use cookies for web analytics that help us to improve the website.
 
How the Swedish Social Insurance Agency uses cookies
 
Do you accept our use of cookies for web analytics?
 
Yes, I accept all cookies
 
No, I only accept necessary cookies
Go to content
Keep in mind...
You are using an older version of your web browser. This means that you might not be able to use all of the functions of the website. We recommend that you update to a newer version.
Parental benefit before the child is born
Parental benefit is money you receive when you take care of your child instead of working, seeking work or studying. You can receive parental benefit before the child is born in order to prepare for your child's arrival.
Can I receive parental benefit before the child is born?
If you are pregnant, you can begin receiving parental benefit 60 days before your estimated due date.
Both parents can be on leave with parental benefit to participate in antenatal classes before the child is born. This also applies to prenatal care visits during the 60 day period before the estimated due date and up until the date of delivery.
You can receive parental benefit if you or your partner is expecting a child and you are insured in Sweden. You are normally insured in Sweden if you live or work here.
How do I register and apply for parental benefit before the child is born?
You must first register that you will be on leave and then apply for the benefit.
1. Register
        How to register as a pregnant woman
    
    
If your midwife cannot send your pregnancy certificate to Försäkringskassan, you have to do it. If that is the case you must send the certificate to: Försäkringskassans inläsningscentral 839 88 Östersund.
If your employer is not connected to the Employer Service or if you cannot use My pages (Mina sidor), you can instead call our Customer Centre at 
0771-524 524
 and request a form to fill in.
        How to register as the other parent
    
    
You can register whenever you want, but not later than the same day for which you want compensation. Report by calling the Customer Centre at 
0771-524 524
. 
2. Apply on My pages (Mina sidor)
Log in to My pages (Mina sidor) to plan your days and apply for parental benefit
            
                Apply for and plan parental benefit (in Swedish)
            
            
 To the e-service
3. Disbursement
Information about when you receive your payments:
Utbetalningsdatum och handläggningstider
 (in Swedish)
 External link.
If you want to change your application
You can change an application submitted on My pages (Mina sidor) as long as the money has not been paid out. If you make your change no later than the 15th of the month, you will receive the right amount at the next disbursement.
            
                Apply for and plan parental benefit (in Swedish)
            
            
 To the e-service
        Related links
    
Learn more about Försäkringskassan
Social insurance system
Healthcare
Information about healthcare in Sweden (1177.se)
 External link, opens in new window.
          Do you want information in another language than English?
    
        Information in other languages
        
    
Last updated: 
2025-01-28
            Your Europe (europa.eu)
        
            Help us improve (foq.youreurope.europa.eu)
        
            Contact Assistance Service (asf.youreurope.europa.eu)