Car allowance for an adult - Försäkringskassan
Cookies used by the Swedish Social Insurance Agency
 
On forsakringskassan.se, we use cookies to make the website work as well as possible for you.
We also use cookies for web analytics that help us to improve the website.
 
How the Swedish Social Insurance Agency uses cookies
 
Do you accept our use of cookies for web analytics?
 
Yes, I accept all cookies
 
No, I only accept necessary cookies
Go to content
Keep in mind...
You are using an older version of your web browser. This means that you might not be able to use all of the functions of the website. We recommend that you update to a newer version.
Car allowance for an adult
You can receive car support if you have a permanent disability and have major difficulties getting around on your own or travelling by public transportation. The car allowance consists of several different allowances used to buy and adapt a vehicle to suit your needs.
You can receive car allowance if this applies to you:
You have a disability that causes you to have major difficulties getting around or travelling by public transportation, for example by bus, train and metro.
The difficulties must persist at least 9 years.
You are insured in Sweden.
To receive car support, you also need to belong to a grant group. This means that one of the following options must apply to you:
You are younger than age 66 and are dependent on the car for support through a job, attending occupational rehabilitation with activity grant or rehabilitation allowance, or attending vocational training. The work, rehabilitation, or training must be expected to continue at least six months.
If you were born in 1957 or earlier you apply to older rules and therefore you must be younger than age 65 to receive car support.
You are younger than age 66 and previously received car allowance in accordance with the point above. You then received sickness compensation or activity compensation.
You will drive the vehicle yourself and are between 18 and 49 years old.
You have a child under the age of 18 who lives at home and you need the vehicle to be able to move about with the child. You will be driving the vehicle yourself.
Car adaptation grant
If you need to adapt a car to use it, you can apply for a car adaption grant for certain costs. We will contact you after receiving your application. At that time, you will receive more information about what rules apply and what requirements may be set for the vehicle.
As a rule, you can receive grants that cover the cost of the adjustment deemed necessary.
How do I apply?
1. Contact your doctor.
You need a doctor's statement that describes
your difficulties in moving about or travelling by public transportation
how long and to what extent your difficulties will last.
if you will be driving the vehicle yourself, the doctor’s statement must state that you satisfy the medical requirements to hold a driving licence.
We recommend that your doctor fill in this form
3222 Läkarutlåtande för bilstöd (in Swedish)
 Pdf, 962 kB.
2. Apply on My pages (Mina sidor)
Apply for car allowance on My pages (Mina sidor).
            
                Apply for car allowance (in Swedish)
            
            
 To the e-service
In the application you will be asked to answer questions about your income.
4. Attach a digital copy of the doctor’s statement
Once you have signed your application, attach a digital copy of your doctor’s statement. You can take a clear photo of it and then attach the picture on My pages (Mina sidor). It is also possible to attach a scanned copy.
If you cannot make a digital copy, send in your doctor's statement to:
Försäkringskassans inläsningscentral 
839 88 Östersund
5. An administrator will contact yo
u
An administrator will confirm receipt of your application within two weeks. You cannot buy the vehicle until you receive a decision on car allowance.
        Related links
    
Learn more about Försäkringskassan
Social insurance system
Healthcare
Information about healthcare in Sweden (1177.se)
 External link, opens in new window.
          Do you want information in another language than English?
    
        Information in other languages
        
    
Last updated: 
2025-03-03
            Your Europe (europa.eu)
        
            Help us improve (foq.youreurope.europa.eu)
        
            Contact Assistance Service (asf.youreurope.europa.eu)