English - Försäkringskassan
Cookies used by the Swedish Social Insurance Agency
 
On forsakringskassan.se, we use cookies to make the website work as well as possible for you.
We also use cookies for web analytics that help us to improve the website.
 
How the Swedish Social Insurance Agency uses cookies
 
Do you accept our use of cookies for web analytics?
 
Yes, I accept all cookies
 
No, I only accept necessary cookies
Go to content
Keep in mind...
You are using an older version of your web browser. This means that you might not be able to use all of the functions of the website. We recommend that you update to a newer version.
English
Parents
E-services and information about parental benefit, care of sick child (vab), 10-days, pregnancy benefit and other benefits for those who are going to become parents.
Sick
E-services and information on sickness benefit, occupational injury compensation and benefit for care of closely related persons.
Job Seeker
E-services and information on activity grant, development allowance and introduction benefit for participants in a Public Employment Service programme.
Disability
E-services and information on assistance allowance, child carer’s allowance, additional cost allowance, sickness compensation, activity compensation and car allowance. 
More useful information
Moving to, working, study, newly arrived in Sweden
Move, travel, work, study or receive health care abroad
Dental care subsidy
Health care in Sweden for visitors from the EU/EEA
For employers
Employer's responsibilities regarding sick employee, parental benefits, disabilities et cetera.
Illness and injury
Parental leave
Employee with a disability
Employee who will work abroad
Together for a Sustainable Working Life
Contact
Contact us
Contact our Customer Centre for Partners
Social insurance system
If you work or live in Sweden, you might already be covered by the Swedish social insurance system. Försäkringskassan determines if you are eligible for a social benefit after you have applied. To be eligible for financial support, you must also fulfil certain criteria, such as employment or residency in Sweden.
Social insurance system
Tips from the Swedish Social Insurance Agency
        Expected Delays
    
At the moment it is taking longer than usual to get through to our call centre and processing times are delayed.
        How and when your benefits are paid
        
    
          Do you want information in another language than English?
    
        Information in other languages
        
    
        Have you been harmed by another person? 
    
        You have the right to live a life free from any form of violence
        
    
This webpage is part of an EU quality network.
Your Europe
 External link, opens in new window.
Help us improve
 External link, opens in new window.
Contact Assistance Services
 External link, opens in new window.