10 days - Försäkringskassan
Cookies used by the Swedish Social Insurance Agency
 
On forsakringskassan.se, we use cookies to make the website work as well as possible for you.
We also use cookies for web analytics that help us to improve the website.
 
How the Swedish Social Insurance Agency uses cookies
 
Do you accept our use of cookies for web analytics?
 
Yes, I accept all cookies
 
No, I only accept necessary cookies
Go to content
Keep in mind...
You are using an older version of your web browser. This means that you might not be able to use all of the functions of the website. We recommend that you update to a newer version.
10 days
As a parent you can receive compensation for 10 days when you adopt a child who is younger than the age of ten. The days are intended to give you time to get to know your child.
Can I receive compensation for the 10 days?
Yes, if you are insured in Sweden. You usually are if you live or work here.
When can I take out the days?
You can take out the days when you have taken the child into your care. The days can either be used when travelling to pick up the child or after you have brought the child home.
How do I apply?
1. Apply
Once you have begun working or seeking work again, log in to My pages (Mina sidor) to apply for money for the days you have been on leave.
Remember to apply no more than 90 days from the first day you were home with the child.
            
                Apply for the 10 days (in Swedish)
            
            
 To the e-service
2. Disbursement
Information about when you receive your payments:
Utbetalningsdatum och handläggningstider
 (in Swedish)
 External link.
If you want to take out the days in a country that is not an EU/EEA country or Switzerland
If you want to take out the 10 days in a country that is not an EU/EEA country or Switzerland, contact us before you leave for your trip for consent for compensation upon a stay abroad. The consent can be in writing or oral. You obtain a written message by applying on My pages (Mina sidor).
            
                Request for consent to keep compensation upon stay abroad (in Swedish)
            
            
 To the e-service
If you are unable to use My pages (Mina sidor), you can apply using the form.
7430 Request for consent to retain or receive compensation if you stay outside the EU, EEA or Switzerland (in Swedish)
 Pdf, 132 kB.
If you want to take out the days in an EU/EEA country or Switzerland, you do not need consent.
        Related links
    
Learn more about Försäkringskassan
Social insurance system
Healthcare
Information about healthcare in Sweden (1177.se)
 External link, opens in new window.
          Do you want information in another language than English?
    
        Information in other languages
        
    
Last updated: 
2025-03-04
            Your Europe (europa.eu)
        
            Help us improve (foq.youreurope.europa.eu)
        
            Contact Assistance Service (asf.youreurope.europa.eu)