Work in several countries within the EU/EEA or Switzerland and United Kingdom - Försäkringskassan
Cookies used by the Swedish Social Insurance Agency
 
On forsakringskassan.se, we use cookies to make the website work as well as possible for you.
We also use cookies for web analytics that help us to improve the website.
 
How the Swedish Social Insurance Agency uses cookies
 
Do you accept our use of cookies for web analytics?
 
Yes, I accept all cookies
 
No, I only accept necessary cookies
Go to content
Keep in mind...
You are using an older version of your web browser. This means that you might not be able to use all of the functions of the website. We recommend that you update to a newer version.
Work in several countries within the EU/EEA or Switzerland and United Kingdom
Here you can read about what applies if you work in several different EU/EEA countries or Switzerland and United Kingdom. This information does not apply to people who are posted for a limited time period.
Work refers to all types of gainful employment, regardless of scope. When you work remotely, the work usually counts as being performed in the country where you are physically located, even if your employer or client is in another country.
If you are posted for a limited period, you can find information about posting on the Work within the EU/EEA or Switzerland page.
Work in the EU/EEA or Switzerland
Should I report to Försäkringskassan that I am working abroad?
Yes, if you live in Sweden
 and work in at least two different EU/EEA countries or Switzerland, you should report it to Försäkringskassan so that we can investigate which country's social insurance legislation you should be covered by. You can do this by applying for certificate A1 by using My pages (Mina sidor).
            
                Apply for a certificate for temporary work abroad (in Swedish)
            
            
 To the e-service
Your employer shall use this form to complete the application:
    6221 Arbetsgivarens uppgifter vid utsändning
    
Pdf.
Upload the form in your application.
        If you are unable to use My pages (Mina sidor)
    
    
You are able use the e-service Apply for an A1 certificate with an eIDAS.
            
                Apply for an A1-certificate
            
            
 To the e-service
Your employer shall use this form to complete the application:
6221 Arbetsgivarens uppgifter vid utsändning
 Pdf, 747 kB.
You can also use this form instead:
6220 Begäran om intyg A1 eller intyg enligt socialförsäkringsavtal
 Pdf, 1 MB.
Remember to attach employment certificates for all of your employments. It should indicate how much you work for each employer or client in each country.
If you own your own business, you must also submit documents showing that your own company in Sweden is active.
If you are working as a flight or cabin crew you need to submit documents that show where you are stationed and which countries you fly to and from, such as employment contracts and work schedules.
        What is certificate A1?
    
    
You need to have certificate A1 when you work as an employee or self-employed person in more than one country within the EU/EEA or Switzerland and United Kingdom. The certificate shows which country's social insurance legislation you are to be covered by. It is that country that you can receive compensation from and to that country that social security contributions are paid for you. You will receive the certificate from the social insurance office in the country whose legislation you are covered by. In Sweden it is Försäkringskassan. The certificate is valid until the date on the certificate or until the authority withdraws it.
You or your employer can present the certificate to the relevant institutions in the countries where you work to demonstrate that social security contributions are not to be paid for you there.
If you live in another EU/EEA country or Switzerland and United Kingdom and work in at least two different EU/EEA countries or Switzerland and United Kingdom, you should instead report it to the authority equivalent to Försäkringskassan in the country where you live. That authority will then investigate which country's social insurance legislation you are to be covered by.
What happens after I have reported this?
Once you have reported this to us, we will investigate which country's social insurance legislation you should be covered by. If we come to the conclusion that you are to be covered by
Swedish legislation we will send you a certificate A1. You present the certificate in the country where you are working so they know that you can receive compensation from Försäkringskassan and pay social security contributions in Sweden.
another country's legislation, we will contact the equivalent of Försäkringskassan there. You will then receive your certificate A1 from that country.
You cannot be covered by the social security legislation of two countries at the same time. The compensation you can receive and the social security contributions you or your employer should pay varies from country to country. Therefore, find out what applies in the country whose legislation you are covered by.
Your type of employment may affect which country's social insurance legislation you are covered by
Here you can read about which country's social insurance legislation applies to you when you work in different countries, based on the employment that you have.
        If you are employed by a private Swedish employer
    
    
You are covered by the legislation of the country where you live if you work in several EU/EEA countries or Switzerland and work at least 25% of your total working hours or receive a salary equivalent to at least 25% salary in the country that you live in.
You are covered by the legislation of the country where your employer has its registered office if you work less than 25% of your total working time or receive a salary equivalent to less than 25% in the country that you live in.
In case of habitual cross-border telework
Several EU/EEA countries and Switzerland have signed the "Framework Agreement in the application of Article 16 (1) of Regulation (EC) No. 883/2004 in case of habitual cross-border telework
"
.
According to this agreement, an employee who carries out cross-border telework can, under certain conditions, remain subject to the social security legislation of the state where the employer has its registered seat provided the telework in the employee’s state of residence is less than 50% of the working time. The exception only applies if both the employee’s state of residence and the state where the employer has its registered seat have signed the Framework agreement.
Here you can find the states that have signed the Framework Agreement.
Cross-border telework in the EU, the EEA and Switzerland (belgium.be)
 External link, opens in new window.
Telework refers to a work activity that is location independent and can be pursued from anywhere. It is based on information technology enabling an employee to remain connected to the employer’s business working environment to fulfil the employee’s assigned tasks.
The employer and the employee must both agree on applying the Framework Agreement and file a request for an A1-certificate.
If no such request is filed, then the ordinary rules on applicable legislation will apply.
        If you are employed by two or more private employers
    
    
You are covered by the legislation of the country where you live if you work in several EU/EEA countries or Switzerland and work at least 25% of your total working hours or receive a salary equivalent to at least 25% salary in the country that you live in.
If you work less than 25% of your total working time or receive a salary equivalent to less than 25% in the country where you live, you are subject to the legislation of
the country where the employers have their registered office, if you have two or more employers established in the same country
the country you do not live in, if you have two or more employers established in two countries, one of which is the country where you live
the country where you live, if you have two or more employers who have are established in other countries.
        If you are a public servant
    
    
If you are a public servant in a country within the EU/EEA or Switzerland, and have only one employer, you are covered by the legislation of the country where your employer is located regardless of where you do your work.
If you are a public servant in one country and work for a private employer in another country, you are subject to the legislation of the country where your public employer is located.
Who counts as a public servant?
Public servants is a term used in the EU/EEA and Switzerland when deciding which country's legislation a person is covered by. Each country decides who qualifies as a public servant in that country. In Sweden, those who work within the state, municipality or region are counted as public servants.
        If you work as a sole proprietor
    
    
You are covered by the legislation of the country where you live if you work in several countries within the EU/EEA or Switzerland and work at least 25% in the country that you live in.
You are covered by the legislation of the country where your business has its main interest if you work less than 25% in the country where you live.
The calculation is based on turnover, working hours, number of services provided or income in each country. Where the business has its main interest is assessed on the basis of
where the fixed and permanent headquarters of the business is located
if the business is temporary or permanent
how many services your own company provides
which country's legislation the self-employed person would like to be covered by.
If you have your own limited company, you are counted as an employee of a private employer. Read more about what applies to you under the heading If you are employed by a private employer. 
        If you work as an employee in one country and as a self-employed person in another country
    
    
If you work as an employee in one country and as a self-employed person in another EU/EEA country or Switzerland, you are covered by the legislation of the country where you work as an employee.
        Related links
    
Learn more about Försäkringskassan
Social insurance system
Healthcare
Information about healthcare in Sweden (1177.se)
 External link, opens in new window.
          Do you want information in another language than English?
    
        Information in other languages
        
    
Last updated: 
2025-03-04
            Your Europe (europa.eu)
        
            Help us improve (foq.youreurope.europa.eu)
        
            Contact Assistance Service (asf.youreurope.europa.eu)