Tools and services for expectant parents - Försäkringskassan
Cookies used by the Swedish Social Insurance Agency
 
On forsakringskassan.se, we use cookies to make the website work as well as possible for you.
We also use cookies for web analytics that help us to improve the website.
 
How the Swedish Social Insurance Agency uses cookies
 
Do you accept our use of cookies for web analytics?
 
Yes, I accept all cookies
 
No, I only accept necessary cookies
Go to content
Keep in mind...
You are using an older version of your web browser. This means that you might not be able to use all of the functions of the website. We recommend that you update to a newer version.
Tools and services for expectant parents
Here, you can find a checklist for expectant parents, a planning tool, and other services that can help you plan and prepare for your parental leave.
When you are expecting a child
Answer a few questions and get personal information on what you in particular need to do and know before the child is born.
            
                Guide: When you are expecting a child (in Swedish)
            
            
 To the e-service
Checklist for expectant parents
A simple checklist with information for you who are expecting a child.
Checklist for expectant parents
Calculate parental benefit
See how long you can be on leave and how much money you get every month.
            
                Calculate parental benefit (in Swedish)
            
            
 To the e-service
My pages (Mina sidor)
Log in to My pages (Mina sidor) with e-identification and plan your parental leave in detail.
Sickness benefit qualifying income
Information about how your parental benefit is affected by your previous income and how you can protect your sickness benefit qualifying income (SGI) when you are on parental leave.
Sickness benefit qualifying income
Facebook for parents
On Facebook, our administrators answer your questions about parental leave and other matters that concern you as an expectant parent.
Ask your questions on Facebook
 External link, opens in new window.
Calculate housing allowance
Low-income families with children may be entitled to housing allowance.
Housing allowance
Parental leave may affect your pension
When you take parental leave or go down to part-time hours while your children are young, your pension may be affected. Visit the Swedish Pensions Agency’s website for tips on things that are good to keep in mind in relation to your pension.
The Swedish Pension Agency's website opens in a new window
 External link, opens in new window.
        Related links
    
Learn more about Försäkringskassan
Social insurance system
Healthcare
Information about healthcare in Sweden (1177.se)
 External link, opens in new window.
          Do you want information in another language than English?
    
        Information in other languages
        
    
Last updated: 
2025-06-27