Electricity support (elstöd) – an economic support to consumers - Försäkringskassan
Cookies used by the Swedish Social Insurance Agency
 
On forsakringskassan.se, we use cookies to make the website work as well as possible for you.
We also use cookies for web analytics that help us to improve the website.
 
How the Swedish Social Insurance Agency uses cookies
 
Do you accept our use of cookies for web analytics?
 
Yes, I accept all cookies
 
No, I only accept necessary cookies
Go to content
Keep in mind...
You are using an older version of your web browser. This means that you might not be able to use all of the functions of the website. We recommend that you update to a newer version.
Electricity support (elstöd) – an economic support to consumers
Due to increased electricity costs, Swedish households have received electricity support (elstöd) based on their electricity consumption.
Försäkringskassan has disbursed two electricity support to households:
Electricity support to households throughout Sweden. The support is based on the electricity consumption during the period November–December 2022. You get the money if your name was written on the electricity contract on 31 December 2022.
Electricity support to the southern half of Sweden. The support is based on the electricity consumption during the period October 2021–September 2022. You get the money if your name was written on the electricity contract on 17 November 2022.
Most households have received the money now
If we do not have your account in our records, you get a voucher. You can redeem it free of charge online at swedbank.se or one of Swedbank’s or Sparbankernas’ offices. If you redeem it at a ClearOn agent, a fee is added.
How to redeem a voucher
Agents where you can redeem a voucher:
Inlösen av värdeavi – hitta din butik (clearon.se) (in Swedish)
 External link, opens in new window.
Swedbank has a guide in different languages about how to redeem a voucher. You will find it under the header "Lös in utbetalningsavi online":
Anmäl konto till kontoregistret & lös in avi (swedbank.se) (in Swedish)
 External link, opens in new window.
Last updated: 
2025-02-27
            Your Europe (europa.eu)
        
            Help us improve (foq.youreurope.europa.eu)
        
            Contact Assistance Service (asf.youreurope.europa.eu)