Assistive devices - Försäkringskassan
Cookies used by the Swedish Social Insurance Agency
 
On forsakringskassan.se, we use cookies to make the website work as well as possible for you.
We also use cookies for web analytics that help us to improve the website.
 
How the Swedish Social Insurance Agency uses cookies
 
Do you accept our use of cookies for web analytics?
 
Yes, I accept all cookies
 
No, I only accept necessary cookies
Go to content
Keep in mind...
You are using an older version of your web browser. This means that you might not be able to use all of the functions of the website. We recommend that you update to a newer version.
Assistive devices
If you have a disability or illness that causes you to need special assistive devices to be able to work, Försäkringskassan can pay an allowance to you or your employer. The allowance is called allowance for assistive devices. You can also receive an allowance to conduct an expert assessment to find out what assistive devices you need.
Can I or my employer receive assistive devices?
You or your employer can receive the allowance for assistive devices if you:
Have an illness or disability that causes you to need assistive devices.
Have worked for the employer for more than 12 months. If you are employed with a wage subsidy or have worked for less than 12 months you must contact the Swedish Public Employment Service.
If you are self-employed, you can receive assistive devices if the company has existed or has been established at least 12 months. If you have worked for a shorter amount of time than 12 months, you can still receive assistive devices but you must contact the Public Employment Service (Arbetsförmedlingen).
Are not yet 69 years old.
Are insured in Sweden. You are insured in Sweden if you work or live here.
What type of assistive devices can I receive allowance for?
Assistive devices that are tailored to your particular illness or disability and that you need to be able to perform your work tasks. Examples of such are assistive listening devices needed to supplement your hearing aid, or assistive vision devices such as a Braille display or video magnifier.
You cannot receive allowance for assistive devices you also need outside of work. An example of this is hearing aids. If you need such aids, contact your healthcare staff.
Furthermore, you cannot receive allowance for e.g. height adjustable desks or similar ergonomic devices. The employer must pay for such devices. The employer is responsible for creating a good working environment. Thus, you cannot receive allowance for equipment that is normally required or that is needed to ensure a proper working environment unless it is a workplace assistive device that has been customised to your needs.
How do I apply?
1. Apply
Apply on My pages (Mina sidor).
            
                Apply for allowance for assistive devices (in Swedish)
            
            
 To the e-service
2. Get a doctor’s statement
You need a statement from your doctor indicating what type of disability or illness you have and a description of your need for an assistive device.
3. Obtain a quote from the assistive device supplier
Contact an assistive device supplier. The supplier must provide a quote indicating the types of assistive devices you are applying for an allowance for and how much they cost. Bear in mind that you cannot order assistive devices or an assessment until after you have submitted an application to us.
If you are employed with a wage subsidy you must always contact the Swedish Public Employment Service.
4. Send the doctor’s statement and the quote to Försäkringskassan
If you and occupational health services have performed a workplace assessment of your workplace, you can send that in as well.
If you have applied for an allowance on My Pages, you can log in and attach the documents digitally. Otherwise you can send your documents to:
Försäkringskassans inläsningscentral 
839 88 Östersund.
5. We will contact you
Once we have received your application, we will contact you within 2-4 weeks if we need additional documents or information.
6. You will receive a decision
It normally takes 30-60 days from the date you submitted the application to the point when you receive a decision from us.
7. Buy the assistive device
After you have applied, you can purchase the assistive device or order an investigation. You can choose to pay yourself and then receive money from us, provided that your application is granted. You can also choose to give power of attorney on the application to someone else to receive the allowance.
8. Send the invoice to Försäkringskassan
Once you have received the invoice from the supplier, send a signed copy to Försäkringskassan and we will pay out the money within a few days.
9. Always report changes
Contact us if your work conditions change or if you no longer use your assistive device in your work.
        Related links
    
Learn more about Försäkringskassan
Social insurance system
Healthcare
Information about healthcare in Sweden (1177.se)
 External link, opens in new window.
          Do you want information in another language than English?
    
        Information in other languages
        
    
Last updated: 
2025-01-28
            Your Europe (europa.eu)
        
            Help us improve (foq.youreurope.europa.eu)
        
            Contact Assistance Service (asf.youreurope.europa.eu)