Together for a Sustainable Working Life - Försäkringskassan
Cookies used by the Swedish Social Insurance Agency
 
On forsakringskassan.se, we use cookies to make the website work as well as possible for you.
We also use cookies for web analytics that help us to improve the website.
 
How the Swedish Social Insurance Agency uses cookies
 
Do you accept our use of cookies for web analytics?
 
Yes, I accept all cookies
 
No, I only accept necessary cookies
Go to content
Keep in mind...
You are using an older version of your web browser. This means that you might not be able to use all of the functions of the website. We recommend that you update to a newer version.
Together for a Sustainable Working Life
More people than ever are on sick leave due to stress. Mental health disorders now account for over half of all long-term sick leave with stress being the most common cause – impacting individuals, employers and society as a whole. To address this, the Swedish Social Insurance Agency (
Försäkringskassan
), has launched an initiative along with other government agencies and major employers to create healthier, more inclusive work environments.
Supported by the European Social Fund, the three-year project will bring together stakeholders from both the public and private sectors. Through nationwide forums, representatives from the business community, academia, occupational health services and government agencies will explore ways to build a healthier, more sustainable working life.
Mental health and workplace well-being are collective responsibilities. 
Försäkringskassan
 is committed to driving this conversation by organising discussions, workshops and seminars. These will provide practical tools, proven methods and inspirational case studies at national conferences, regional forums, digital platforms and online courses.
Facts About the Momentum Project
Project period:
 1 May 2024–30 April 2027.
Project deliverables:
 National Knowledge Group, regional forums, conferences, digital platform, training courses and study materials, international study visits, final report.
National Knowledge Group:
 Government agencies and Swedish occupational health services will collaborate to collect and systematise knowledge. The group will meet twice each semester and will continue its work beyond the end of the project.
Regional forums:
 Six regional forums across Sweden, each including 20 – 25 major employers represented by managers and HR staff. Both public and private sector industries will participate. Forums will convene twice per semester, offering seminars, workshops etc.
Funding:
 
Försäkringskassan
 and the European Social Fund.
Last updated: 
2025-03-31
            Your Europe (europa.eu)
        
            Help us improve (foq.youreurope.europa.eu)
        
            Contact Assistance Service (asf.youreurope.europa.eu)