Contact us - Försäkringskassan
Cookies used by the Swedish Social Insurance Agency
 
On forsakringskassan.se, we use cookies to make the website work as well as possible for you.
We also use cookies for web analytics that help us to improve the website.
 
How the Swedish Social Insurance Agency uses cookies
 
Do you accept our use of cookies for web analytics?
 
Yes, I accept all cookies
 
No, I only accept necessary cookies
Go to content
Keep in mind...
You are using an older version of your web browser. This means that you might not be able to use all of the functions of the website. We recommend that you update to a newer version.
Contact us
We are available on different forums and channels: you can call us, engage with us on social media, get help via a personal web meeting or visit a service centre. Find all our contact information on this page.
Call us
Call our customer centre for general information, specific questions about your application and assistance with Mina sidor (My pages).
Customer centre: 
0771‑524 524
Hours of operation
Monday–Friday: 8.00–16.00
Saturday–Sunday: closed 
Public holidays: closed
Please note that currently, it is taking longer than usual to get through to our call centre and processing times are delayed. If you have trouble reaching us, please check your case and payment through our app or by logging into My Pages (Mina sidor). The latest updates for each benefit are also published regularly on Special disbursement dates and processing times:
Special disbursement dates and processing times
Send documents
If you need to send documents to us, such as doctor’s certificate, doctor’s statement, work certificate or pregnancy certificate send them to:
Försäkringskassans inläsningscentral
SE-839 88 Östersund
Make sure your personal identity number is noted on the documents.
Get assistance with an application
Find more information about the different social insurance benefits on our website – in both Swedish and English. For further assistance you can either visit a service office or talk to an administrator in your language, for example English, Arabic, Tigrinya, Somali, Turkish, French, Spanish or German.
Information in other languages
        Personal meeting online
    
    
A personal meeting online enables you to receive personal assistance when you are logged in to My pages (Mina sidor) or if you have trouble logging in. You are connected with an administrator from our customer centre, who will help you via display mirroring, chat and video. The meeting opens automatically on the website pages where it is available. If there are a lot of users on the page at the same time, you will be put in a queue. The meeting is available during the same hours as our customer centre, but closes half an hour before the customer centre closes.
How does it work?
An invitation for a meeting opens automatically via a banner on the pages where the service is available.
If you accept the invitation, screen mirroring is connected so you and the administrator can share a view of Försäkringskassan’s website together).
You will then receive support via a chat or video call, during which the administrator can show you how to correctly fill in the information on the form you have open on your screen.
Security and privacy
Försäkringskassan does not save any part of the conversation. The video meeting is only available via streaming. Thus it is not recorded or saved.
Technical requirements
If you choose to chat by video, you must have a webcam to enable the administrator to see you.
Visit a service centre
At the service centre, you can meet with an administrator, who can help you with issues related to Försäkringskassan (the Swedish Social Insurance Agency), for example
e-services
applications
general information
information about your case
forms
printing certificates and evidence documents
Service centre are closed on public holidays, weekends, Christmas Eve, New Year’s Eve, the day before Easter, and Midsummer Eve. Reduced opening hours on Walpurgis Night and Twelfth Night.
Visit a service centre
Find us on social media
We have accounts in Swedish on Facebook, Instagram, LinkedIn and Twitter. On Facebook we respond to questions and comments about parental insurance and housing allowance, but we cannot handle individual matters. We provide tips on job vacancies and discuss current issues in social insurance on Twitter, YouTube, Instagram and LinkedIn. You can also find instructional videos, seminars and promotional videos at our Youtube channel.
Facebook for parents
 External link, opens in new window.
Försäkringskassan on Facebook - join us
 External link, opens in new window.
Försäkringskassan on Instagram
 External link, opens in new window.
Försäkringskassan on LinkedIn
 External link, opens in new window.
Försäkringskassan’s YouTube channel
 External link, opens in new window.
Försäkringskassan on Twitter
 External link, opens in new window.
Who can see what I write on your Facebook page?
Anything written on our Facebook page becomes public record. Never give out private information, such as your account number or personal ID number. If you like our page or make a post, this will become visible to your Facebook friends.
If you choose to like the page, you agree to our posts being made visible in your own feed. You can at any time choose to stop liking the page or hide individual posts or all posts we make.
        Related links
    
Learn more about Försäkringskassan
Social insurance system
Forms and e-services (in Swedish)
Accessible information
Alternative formats for people with disabilities
Healthcare
Information about healthcare in Sweden (1177.se)
 External link, opens in new window.
        Expected Delays
    
At the moment it is taking longer than usual to get through to our call centre and processing times are delayed.
        How and when your benefits are paid
        
    
          Do you want information in another language than English?
    
        Information in other languages
        
    
Last updated: 
2024-10-15