Allowance to prevent and reduce sick leave - Försäkringskassan
Cookies used by the Swedish Social Insurance Agency
 
On forsakringskassan.se, we use cookies to make the website work as well as possible for you.
We also use cookies for web analytics that help us to improve the website.
 
How the Swedish Social Insurance Agency uses cookies
 
Do you accept our use of cookies for web analytics?
 
Yes, I accept all cookies
 
No, I only accept necessary cookies
Go to content
Keep in mind...
You are using an older version of your web browser. This means that you might not be able to use all of the functions of the website. We recommend that you update to a newer version.
Allowance to prevent and reduce sick leave
As an employer, you are entitled to an allowance to engage expert support for the purpose of investigating, planning, initiating, implementing and following up on workplace-oriented measures.
Allowance to prevent and shorten sick leave – workplace-oriented rehabilitation support
The measures you apply for should be workplace-oriented in order to prevent sickness benefit cases or make it easier for an employee to remain in work or return to work. The allowance is also a good support for developing a plan for returning to work for an employee who is on sick leave.
When might you as an employer need to hire a provider?
It is you together with the employee and the provider who plan and implement appropriate workplace-oriented measures. Medical or other treatment is not included, these must be workplace-oriented support measures. For example, you as an employer might need to hire a provider:
to identify or investigate an employee’s need for support or measures in order to be able to remain at or return to work
to produce a plan for returning to work
to have the support of a rehabilitation manager or equivalent function to investigate, plan, implement or follow up on work-oriented measures
because the employee needs supportive discussions in order to be able remain at or return to work
because the employee needs support in dealing with stress, conflict or a crisis in order to remain at or return to work
because the employee needs supervision to manage his/her work
to adapt the workplace, tasks or working hours
to review the working environment or tasks of the individual, e.g. to identify any need for adaptations, assistive devices or to learn a modified work technique
to implement other workplace-oriented measures so that your employee can remain at or return to work
How do I apply?
1. Contact an approved provider
Contact an approved provider of workplace-oriented rehabilitation support, such as an occupational healthcare provider or another actor.
Approved providers Workplace-oriented rehabilitation support – by postal address (in Swedish)
 Excel, 35 kB, opens in new window.
Approved providers Workplace-oriented rehabilitation support – by provider (in Swedish)
 Excel, 36 kB, opens in new window.
2. The provider reports the measures implemented
The provider reports the measures implemented to you, together with supporting documentation to confirm the cost.
7026 Reporting of workplace-oriented rehabilitation support (in Swedish)
 Pdf, 899 kB.
3. Fill in the form entitled Application for allowance for workplace-oriented rehabilitation support
Fill in the application form entitled Application for allowance for workplace-oriented rehabilitation support, using the provider’s report as supporting documentation. The report should not be submitted together with the application. It should only be submitted to Försäkringskassan on request.
7025 Apply for an allowance for workplace-oriented rehabilitation support (in Swedish)
 Pdf, 739 kB.
4. Send the application to Försäkringskassan
Send the application to the address on the application form, enclosing supporting documentation to confirm the cost and the supplier.
If you have any questions about workplace-oriented rehabilitation support, please email them to:
arbetsplatsinriktatrehabiliteringsstod@forsakringskassan.se
        Related links
    
Learn more about Försäkringskassan
Social insurance system
Healthcare
Information about healthcare in Sweden (1177.se)
 External link, opens in new window.
          Do you want information in another language than English?
    
        Information in other languages
        
    
Last updated: 
2025-02-27
            Your Europe (europa.eu)
        
            Help us improve (foq.youreurope.europa.eu)
        
            Contact Assistance Service (asf.youreurope.europa.eu)