If you are studying and are infected with a disease considered a public health hazard - Försäkringskassan
Cookies used by the Swedish Social Insurance Agency
 
On forsakringskassan.se, we use cookies to make the website work as well as possible for you.
We also use cookies for web analytics that help us to improve the website.
 
How the Swedish Social Insurance Agency uses cookies
 
Do you accept our use of cookies for web analytics?
 
Yes, I accept all cookies
 
No, I only accept necessary cookies
Go to content
Keep in mind...
You are using an older version of your web browser. This means that you might not be able to use all of the functions of the website. We recommend that you update to a newer version.
If you are studying and are infected with a disease considered a public health hazard
Here you will find out what you need to do if you are studying and are or may be infected with a disease considered a public health hazard.
Can I keep my student funding while I'm infected?
If a doctor suspends you from studying for a certain period, you may be allowed to keep your student funding during that period. This applies if you
are studying with student funding from CSN
are or may be infected with a disease considered a public health hazard (e.g. Covid-19)
have a medical certificate showing that your doctor has suspended you from studying
cannot study at all, not even remotely.
You may also be entitled to reimbursement for travel that is required, in connection with medical examinations for example.
Apply to keep your student funding
If you are informed that you have been infected with a disease considered a public health hazard, you must obtain a medical certificate. The certificate must state that the doctor is suspending you from studying.
Print out this form, fill it in and send it to us. Attach the medical certificate.
7550 Application for disease carrier’s benefit (in Swedish)
 Pdf, 235 kB.
We will send our decision to you.
We will notify CSN of the decision.
When will I receive the decision?
Processing normally takes 30 days from the date when your application is received. It may take more time if we need to request more information. In order to speed up the processing of your application, it is good if you submit an application for the entire period. You can therefore apply once you have returned to your studies.
Can I receive travel allowance because I am a disease carrier
If you have been infected or may have en infected with a disease considered a public health hazard, you can be reimbursed for trips you need to make in connection with medical examinations, health checks or treatments.
When you apply, you need to submit receipts for your travel expenses
receipts showing that the trips were for care under the Communicable Diseases Act.
How do I apply?
1. Apply
            
                Apply for compensation for travel expenses for a disease carrier (in Swedish)
            
            
 To the e-service
2. Submit your receipts
3. Disbursement
Processing normally takes 30 days from the date when your application is received. It may take more time if we need to request more information. Disbursement is not paid out on a fixed date but will be paid once we have completed the processing work.
        Related links
    
Learn more about Försäkringskassan
Social insurance system
Healthcare
Information about healthcare in Sweden (1177.se)
 External link, opens in new window.
          Do you want information in another language than English?
    
        Information in other languages
        
    
Last updated: 
2024-02-07