Move to Sweden - Försäkringskassan
Cookies used by the Swedish Social Insurance Agency
 
On forsakringskassan.se, we use cookies to make the website work as well as possible for you.
We also use cookies for web analytics that help us to improve the website.
 
How the Swedish Social Insurance Agency uses cookies
 
Do you accept our use of cookies for web analytics?
 
Yes, I accept all cookies
 
No, I only accept necessary cookies
Go to content
Keep in mind...
You are using an older version of your web browser. This means that you might not be able to use all of the functions of the website. We recommend that you update to a newer version.
Move to Sweden
Here you can find out what applies to individuals who are moving to Sweden. The information applies to foreign nationals who move to Sweden as well as to Swedish citizens who move back to Sweden after a period abroad. It does not apply to those posted in Sweden by a foreign employer or those who are here to study.
Provide information to Försäkringskassan
If you move to Sweden together with children under the age of 16, Försäkringskassan will contact you once you are registered in the Swedish National Population Register. We do this to investigate whether you and your children should be insured here and thereby eligible for child allowance.
If you move to Sweden without children, you can provide information to Försäkringskassan if, for example, you would like a European Health Insurance Card (EHIC) or apply for a benefit or allowance.
If you move to Sweden without being registered, you must provide Försäkringskassan with information. If you then at a later date apply for a benefit or allowance or have children, we use the data to investigate whether you should be insured in Sweden. Use the e‑service if you have a Swedish e‑ID (e-legitimation or bank‑id).
            
                Lämna uppgifter vid flytt till eller arbete i Sverige
            
            
 To the e-service
If you are unable to use the e‑service you can send the information using this form.
5456en Information when moving to or working in Sweden
 Pdf, 862 kB.
If you have foreign eID you can use this e-service:
            
                Provide information when moving to or working in Sweden
            
            
 To the e-service
Family members moving with you
Your family members may not be insured in the same country as you. Therefore, all accompanying family members that are applying for a benefit must provide information to Försäkringskassan when you move to Sweden. Please also provide information on accompanying children under 18 years of age:
You can provide details of children for whom you are the guardian in your own report.
If you are two guardians of the children, you both need to provide details of the children in your reports.
If you are two guardians but only you provide information about moving abroad, the other guardian needs to verify the information about the children in the e-service.
5456en Information when moving to or working in Sweden
 Pdf, 862 kB.
What happens once I have submitted the information?
Försäkringskassan assesses whether you should be insured in Sweden. If we determine that you are insured in Sweden, you may be entitled to different types of benefits from Försäkringskassan, such as child allowance or housing allowance.
Insured in Sweden
Read more about what applies if you are going to work in Sweden.
Working in Sweden
Register with the Swedish Tax Agency
If you are planning on staying in Sweden at least one year, you must most often be entered into the Swedish population register. You do this by registering with the Swedish Tax Agency.
The Swedish Tax Agency (skatteverket.se)
 External link, opens in new window.
Right to medical and dental care
When you are registered in Sweden, you are entitled to medical and dental care under the same terms as others who live in Sweden. This means that you pay the standard Swedish patient fee for healthcare in the public healthcare system.
If you are insured in Sweden, you are entitled to state dental support. Read more on the dental support page.
Dental care subsidy
        Related links
    
Learn more about Försäkringskassan
Social insurance system
Healthcare
Information about healthcare in Sweden (1177.se)
 External link, opens in new window.
          Do you want information in another language than English?
    
        Information in other languages
        
    
Last updated: 
2025-03-03
            Your Europe (europa.eu)
        
            Help us improve (foq.youreurope.europa.eu)
        
            Contact Assistance Service (asf.youreurope.europa.eu)