Sign in - Försäkringskassan
Cookies used by the Swedish Social Insurance Agency
 
On forsakringskassan.se, we use cookies to make the website work as well as possible for you.
We also use cookies for web analytics that help us to improve the website.
 
How the Swedish Social Insurance Agency uses cookies
 
Do you accept our use of cookies for web analytics?
 
Yes, I accept all cookies
 
No, I only accept necessary cookies
Go to content
Keep in mind...
You are using an older version of your web browser. This means that you might not be able to use all of the functions of the website. We recommend that you update to a newer version.
Sign in
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Vänligen vänta
 
 
 
 
Help with sign in
        For private individuals (My pages)
    
    
Support
Logging in problems, frequently asked questions and answers (in Swedish)
About My pages
Read about the advantages of logging in to My pages (in Swedish)
        For employers (e-services for employers)
    
    
To use the e-services for employers: your company must have subscribed to Försäkringskassan’s e-services and, you, the person logging in, must have been given user rights. You get these rights from your employer.
Employers applying for subscription to our e-services
When subscribing, an employer may register one person as a rights administrator.
How to start using e-services for employers (in Swedish)
See which e-services are available for employers
E-services for employers (in Swedish)
        For dental staff members (Dental care portal)
    
    
This is where you can read about: subscribing your dental practice to the state dental support scheme and, requesting payments.
Subscribing to the state dental care support scheme (in Swedish)
        For partners till LEFI Online
    
    
Support
Agreements and subscription (in Swedish)
About LEFI Online
Details of the service (in Swedish)
        For a representative of a private individual
    
    
To use Försäkringskassan’s e-services as a representative of a private individual, you first need to send us a copy of the document appointing you as a representative. Once we have received this, it may be a few working days before you are registered and can log in.
Useful information for guardians, special representatives, administrators, etc (in Swedish)
        Related links
    
Your personal data
If you or your child has protected personal data (in Swedish)