The child lives with both parents - Försäkringskassan
Cookies used by the Swedish Social Insurance Agency
 
On forsakringskassan.se, we use cookies to make the website work as well as possible for you.
We also use cookies for web analytics that help us to improve the website.
 
How the Swedish Social Insurance Agency uses cookies
 
Do you accept our use of cookies for web analytics?
 
Yes, I accept all cookies
 
No, I only accept necessary cookies
Go to content
Keep in mind...
You are using an older version of your web browser. This means that you might not be able to use all of the functions of the website. We recommend that you update to a newer version.
The child lives with both parents
Alternating residence means that the child lives roughly as much with both parents, for example every other week. Normally, neither parent needs to pay child support in this type of situation. But, there are exceptions, such as if one of the parents has a much higher income than the other.
Who pays child support?
Normally, no parent has to pay child support in that situation, as both parents are considered to pay for their share of the costs of the child's accommodation, food and hobbies.
There may be exceptions, for example if one parent has a much higher income than the other. In that case it may be good for the child if the parent with a higher income pays child support in order for the child's standard of living not to vary too much from one week to another.
What do we do if we cannot reach an agreement?
If you have a hard time agreeing on access (visitation), custody, residence and child support, you can contact your municipality. They will help you to organise a cooperation discussion. The cooperation discussion is free of charge and is an opportunity for you to find common solutions for the child's best interest without having to go to court.
What happens when the child turns 18?
Once the child has turned 18, the child support shall be paid directly to the child if the child attends school full-time at compulsory school level, upper secondary level or the equivalent. The child is entitled to child support latest up until their 21st birthday. If the child has turned 18 and has finished school, he/she is no longer entitled to child support.
It is the child and the paying parent who enter into a child support agreement when the child is 18 years old.
            
                Apply for extended maintenance support (in Swedish)
            
            
 To the e-service
        Related links
    
Learn more about Försäkringskassan
Social insurance system
Healthcare
Information about healthcare in Sweden (1177.se)
 External link, opens in new window.
          Do you want information in another language than English?
    
        Information in other languages
        
    
Last updated: 
2025-02-28
            Your Europe (europa.eu)
        
            Help us improve (foq.youreurope.europa.eu)
        
            Contact Assistance Service (asf.youreurope.europa.eu)