Special high-risk protection - Försäkringskassan
Cookies used by the Swedish Social Insurance Agency
 
On forsakringskassan.se, we use cookies to make the website work as well as possible for you.
We also use cookies for web analytics that help us to improve the website.
 
How the Swedish Social Insurance Agency uses cookies
 
Do you accept our use of cookies for web analytics?
 
Yes, I accept all cookies
 
No, I only accept necessary cookies
Go to content
Keep in mind...
You are using an older version of your web browser. This means that you might not be able to use all of the functions of the website. We recommend that you update to a newer version.
Special high-risk protection
Special high risk protection means that your employer can receive compensation for your sick pay costs if you are at risk of having long periods of illness or of being sick often. If you are sick often, you can also skip the qualifying period.
Am I entitled to special high risk protection?
You are covered by the special high risk protection if it is likely that illness or a disability will cause you to be
sick often (more than ten times in one year), or
sick for a long period of time (more than 28 consecutive days).
You must also be insured in Sweden.
How do I apply?
1. Get a medical statement
Contact your doctor and obtain a medical statement that describes why you will be sick often or for a long time.
2. Apply
You apply on My pages (Mina sidor).
            
                Apply for special high-risk protection (in Swedish)
            
            
 To the e-service
3. Attach digital copy
Once you have signed your application, attach a digital copy of your medical statement. You can take a picture of the medical statement with a mobile phone and then attach the photo on My Pages. It is also possible to attach a scanned copy.
If you are unable to make digital copies, send your documents to:
Försäkringskassans inläsningscentral
839 88 Östersund
4. You will receive a decision
Processing of your case and medical statement normally takes 30 days from the date when your application is received. It may take more time if we need to request more information. The decision begins to apply no earlier than the month after the application was submitted.
What should I do if I become sick?
If you are an employee, you report your sickness to your employer as usual. You will receive compensation from your employer, who in turn will be compensated for the sick pay costs by Försäkringskassan.
If you are a job seeker or self-employed, you report your sickness to Försäkringskassan as usual so we can pay you sickness benefit.
        Related links
    
Learn more about Försäkringskassan
Social insurance system
Healthcare
Information about healthcare in Sweden (1177.se)
 External link, opens in new window.
          Do you want information in another language than English?
    
        Information in other languages
        
    
Last updated: 
2025-01-28
            Your Europe (europa.eu)
        
            Help us improve (foq.youreurope.europa.eu)
        
            Contact Assistance Service (asf.youreurope.europa.eu)