Study in Sweden - Försäkringskassan
Cookies used by the Swedish Social Insurance Agency
 
On forsakringskassan.se, we use cookies to make the website work as well as possible for you.
We also use cookies for web analytics that help us to improve the website.
 
How the Swedish Social Insurance Agency uses cookies
 
Do you accept our use of cookies for web analytics?
 
Yes, I accept all cookies
 
No, I only accept necessary cookies
Go to content
Keep in mind...
You are using an older version of your web browser. This means that you might not be able to use all of the functions of the website. We recommend that you update to a newer version.
Study in Sweden
Here, you can read about what applies if you move to Sweden to study. The rules differ depending on which country you come from.
        If you come from an EU/EEA country or Switzerland
    
    
Compensation when you are studying in Sweden
If you come to Sweden to study and apply for a compensation from Försäkringskassan, we will first assess whether you are to be insured in Sweden. For example, we look at which country you are receiving student aid from, where your family members live, what kind of accommodation you have in each country and how long you are planning to stay in Sweden. You cannot be covered by the social insurance legislation of two countries within the EU/EEA or Switzerland at the same time.
Insured in Sweden
If you want to apply for compensation, you should notify Försäkringskassan that you have come to Sweden to study, and we will look at what applies to you. You submit information using My pages (Mina sidor).
            
                Lämna uppgifter vid flytt till eller arbete i Sverige
            
            
 To the e-service
If you are unable to use My pages (Mina sidor), you can submit the information by using a form.
5456 Information when moving to or working in Sweden (in Swedish)
 Pdf, 862 kB.
If you have an eID you can use this e-service:
            
                Provide information when moving to or working in Sweden
            
            
 To the e-service
Work in Sweden
If you are working in Sweden during your studies, or if you are employed as a doctoral student, you can be insured in Sweden. This means that you may be entitled to some compensations from Försäkringskassan.
Work in Sweden
Healthcare when you are studying in Sweden
You are generally entitled to medical care in Sweden if you are registered in the Population Register. You then only pay the Swedish patient fee.
If you are not registered, you are entitled to healthcare that cannot wait until you return home. You then only pay the Swedish patient fee. When you seek medical care, you must present a European Health Insurance Card (EHIC) that you order in your home country. If you come from a Nordic country, you can instead present an ID card and provide your address.
1177 Vårdguiden (1177.se)
 External link, opens in new window.
Dental care when you are studying in Sweden
You are entitled to dental care that cannot wait until you return home. You then pay the same fees as those who live in Sweden. When you seek dental care, you must present a European Health Insurance Card (EHIC) that you order in your home country. If you come from a Nordic country, you can instead present an ID card and provide your address.
        If you come from a country outside of the EU/EEA or from Switzerland
    
    
Compensation when you are studying in Sweden
If you come to Sweden from a country outside the EU/EEA, you can generally not be insured in Sweden and thereby cannot receive compensation from Försäkringskassan.
Insured in Sweden
Working in Sweden
If you are working in Sweden during your studies, or if you are employed as a doctoral student, you can be insured in Sweden for compensations that are based on work. This means that you may be entitled to some compensations from Försäkringskassan.
Work in Sweden
Healthcare when you are studying in Sweden
You are generally entitled to medical care in Sweden if you are registered in the Population Register. You then only pay the Swedish patient fee.
1177 Vårdguiden (1177.se)
 External link, opens in new window.
You are always entitled to healthcare that cannot wait until you return home, but in most cases you must pay the full cost yourself. The exception is if you are registered in or come from a country with which Sweden has a special healthcare agreement. This applies to Algeria, Australia, Chile, Israel, Turkey, Quebec (Canada), and the British islands Isle of Man, Jersey and Guernsey. If you come from one of these countries, contact the equivalent of Försäkringskassan in that country to find out what applies for you. You can also contact us and we will help you.
Dental care when you are studying in Sweden
If you do not come from a country that does not belong to the EU/EEA, you must in most cases pay the full cost of dental care yourself. The exceptions are the Isle of Man, Jersey, Guernsey, and Quebec in Canada. If you come from one of these countries, contact the equivalent of Försäkringskassan in that country to find out what applies for you. You can also contact us and we will help you.
        Related links
    
Learn more about Försäkringskassan
Social insurance system
Healthcare
Information about healthcare in Sweden (1177.se)
 External link, opens in new window.
          Do you want information in another language than English?
    
        Information in other languages
        
    
Last updated: 
2024-06-12
            Your Europe (europa.eu)
        
            Help us improve (foq.youreurope.europa.eu)
        
            Contact Assistance Service (asf.youreurope.europa.eu)