If you have to pay back previous payments - Försäkringskassan
Cookies used by the Swedish Social Insurance Agency
 
On forsakringskassan.se, we use cookies to make the website work as well as possible for you.
We also use cookies for web analytics that help us to improve the website.
 
How the Swedish Social Insurance Agency uses cookies
 
Do you accept our use of cookies for web analytics?
 
Yes, I accept all cookies
 
No, I only accept necessary cookies
Go to content
Keep in mind...
You are using an older version of your web browser. This means that you might not be able to use all of the functions of the website. We recommend that you update to a newer version.
If you have to pay back previous payments
If you received too much money from us, you may be obligated to pay the surplus back. This information provides information about repayment, for example what to do if you need to pay in instalments and what happens if you do not pay the money back.
If you received too much compensation, report it
If you discover that you received too much compensation, you can report this on My pages (Mina sidor).
            
                My pages (in Swedish)
            
            
 To the e-service
        If you cannot use My pages (Mina sidor)
    
    
Call the Customer Centre at 
0771‑524 524
 to submit your registration.
What happens if I received too much money
If you received too much money from us, you may be obligated to pay the surplus back. This applies regardless of whether it is us or you yourself who caused the incorrect disbursement. When we discover an incorrect disbursement or you report it to us, we investigate whether you have to pay it back. Once the investigation is complete, we let you know the results and then send a decision to you. If we decide that you are required to pay the money back, you will also receive a giro in-payment form. You then have 30 days to pay.
Can I divide the payment into instalments?
If you cannot pay back the full amount at once, you can reach an agreement on a repayment plan with us. This is most easily done by logging in to My pages (Mina sidor).
            
                My pages (in Swedish)
            
            
 To the e-service
You cannot apply for a repayment plan until you have received your decision specifying how much you need to pay back and the due date for repayment.
        If you cannot use My pages (Mina sidor)
    
    
Call the Customer Centre at 
0771 524 524
 or apply using the form 6085 Request repayment plan.
6085 Request repayment plan (in Swedish)
 Pdf, 884 kB.
Repayment plan – how it works
If you are granted a repayment plan, you pay interest. You also pay an invoicing fee of SEK 15 per month if we send you a giro in-payment form. If you are receiving compensation from Försäkringskassan, you can choose to have the money deducted from your compensation. This way, you do not have to pay the invoicing fee.
If you already have a repayment plan, contact us if you want this repayment incorporated into the repayment plan.
If you apply for a repayment plan before the due date, you avoid paying an arrangement fee for the repayment plan.You cannot pay via direct debit (autogiro) or e-invoice.
If you fail to pay
If you do not pay by the due date, you will be charged penalty interest. The interest is lower if you reach out to us an arrange a repayment plan.
If you fail to pay and do not arrange a repayment plan, we will send out a reminder.
If you fail to pay after being sent the reminder, a collections demand will be sent to you. An additional fee will then be charged.
We may then decide to deduct the money from compensation you receive from us or apply for enforcement by the Swedish Enforcement Authority.
If you are not satisfied
If you are dissatisfied with our repayment decision, you can request that we reconsider the decision. Even if you want to request reconsideration of the decision, you must pay the debt by the due date at the latest to avoid interest on arrears. If the decision is changed after reconsideration, you will be paid back the money you have paid in.
If you are not satisfied
Repayment of taxable benefits
As of 1 January 2019, there are new rules specifying that employers and other payers shall report information at the individual level in the employer’s declaration.
This change means that the exception that enabled Försäkringskassan to get back the tax deducted from an individual’s compensation no longer applies. As of 1 January 2019, the same rules apply as for other payers/employers, i.e. that the deducted tax can only be paid to the person it relates to. The tax belongs to the payment recipient. With the current rules, it is not possible to pay a tax deduction back to anyone other than the person the deduction was made for.
You can read more about how the rules for the tax work at skatteverket.se.
Skatteverket (skatteverket.se)
 External link, opens in new window.
        Related links
    
Learn more about Försäkringskassan
Social insurance system
Healthcare
Information about healthcare in Sweden (1177.se)
 External link, opens in new window.
          Do you want information in another language than English?
    
        Information in other languages
        
    
Last updated: 
2025-03-04
            Your Europe (europa.eu)
        
            Help us improve (foq.youreurope.europa.eu)
        
            Contact Assistance Service (asf.youreurope.europa.eu)