Disease carrier allowance and travel allowance for individuals with a limited company - Försäkringskassan
Cookies used by the Swedish Social Insurance Agency
 
On forsakringskassan.se, we use cookies to make the website work as well as possible for you.
We also use cookies for web analytics that help us to improve the website.
 
How the Swedish Social Insurance Agency uses cookies
 
Do you accept our use of cookies for web analytics?
 
Yes, I accept all cookies
 
No, I only accept necessary cookies
Go to content
Keep in mind...
You are using an older version of your web browser. This means that you might not be able to use all of the functions of the website. We recommend that you update to a newer version.
Disease carrier allowance and travel allowance for individuals with a limited company
Disease carrier allowance and travel allowance is money you can receive if you are unable to work because you have or are suspected of having an infectious disease.
Am I eligible for disease carrier allowance?
You can receive disease carrier allowance if you must refrain from working because you:
a doctor has decided that you are not allowed to work because you are infected or may be infected with a general dangerous disease
you should see a doctor to find out if you have a contagious disease
you have an illness, infection, wound or other injury that prevents you from handling food
You must have a medical certificate showing that you are not allowed to work due to the risk of infection.
If the disease prevents you from working
Disease carrier allowance is paid to individuals who are able to work, but are not allowed to do so due to a risk of infecting others. If you are unable to work, you may be entitled to sick pay from your employer or sickness benefit from Försäkringskassan.
Can I receive travel allowance because I am a disease carrier?
If you have or are likely to have been infected with a disease considered a public health hazard, you can be reimbursed for trips connected to medical examinations, checks or treatments.
When you apply, you need to submit:
receipts for your travel expenses
receipts showing that the trips were related to a disease considered a public health hazard under the Communicable Diseases Act.
How do I apply?
1. Apply
            
                Apply for disease carrier allowance (in Swedish)
            
            
 To the e-service
            
                Apply for compensation for travel expenses for a disease carrier (in Swedish)
            
            
 To the e-service
2. Submit the doctor's certificate or receipts
Along with your application, you must submit a certificate indicating that you are not allowed to work or search for a job because you have or are suspected of having an infectious disease. The certificate will be provided by your doctor.
3. Disbursement
Information about when you receive your payments:
Utbetalningsdatum och handläggningstider
 (in Swedish)
 External link.
        Related links
    
Learn more about Försäkringskassan
Social insurance system
Healthcare
Information about healthcare in Sweden (1177.se)
 External link, opens in new window.
          Do you want information in another language than English?
    
        Information in other languages
        
    
Last updated: 
2025-03-04
            Your Europe (europa.eu)
        
            Help us improve (foq.youreurope.europa.eu)
        
            Contact Assistance Service (asf.youreurope.europa.eu)