Work in Sweden - Försäkringskassan
Cookies used by the Swedish Social Insurance Agency
 
On forsakringskassan.se, we use cookies to make the website work as well as possible for you.
We also use cookies for web analytics that help us to improve the website.
 
How the Swedish Social Insurance Agency uses cookies
 
Do you accept our use of cookies for web analytics?
 
Yes, I accept all cookies
 
No, I only accept necessary cookies
Go to content
Keep in mind...
You are using an older version of your web browser. This means that you might not be able to use all of the functions of the website. We recommend that you update to a newer version.
Work in Sweden
When you are going to work in Sweden there are a few things you might need to do to be eligible for benefits from Försäkringskassan or a European Health Insurance Card (EHIC). It applies if you move to Sweden, if you are posted in Sweden or if you return to Sweden after some time abroad.
If you are going to work in Sweden but are not registered here, you need to register with Försäkringskassan. If you are going to be here for at least one year, you need to register your address at the Swedish Tax Agency so that you can be registered.
The Swedish Tax Agency (skatteverket.se)
 External link, opens in new window.
If you want to apply for a benefit or an EHIC from Försäkringskassan and have previously worked or lived in another country, you need to report that you are now working in Sweden. We need to investigate whether you should be insured here in order to assess whether you are entitled to the benefit you are applying for.
Insured in Sweden
Moving to Sweden
You report this in the e-service.
            
                Lämna uppgifter vid arbete, studier eller flytt utomlands
            
            
 To the e-service
        If you are unable to use the e-service
    
    
Apply using this form:
5456 Information when moving to or working in Sweden
 Pdf, 862 kB.
If you have an eID you can use this e-service:
            
                Provide information when moving to or working in Sweden
            
            
 To the e-service
        If you work in Sweden but live in a different Nordic country
    
    
If you live in one Nordic country and work in another, you are are insured the country where you work. This means that you may be eligible for a benefit from that country if, for example, you become ill.
If you work in Sweden and live in another Nordic country, you are insured in Sweden and can get benefits from Försäkringskassan. If you apply for a benefit related to your child, your child must have a Swedish coordination number from the Swedish Tax Agency. If you are in need of care, you must present your “Certificate on the right to healthcare benefits in Sweden”. You apply for the certificate in the e-service.
Longer processing times
At the moment we have longer processing times than usual. We apologise for this and are doing our utmost to shorten them.
            
                Apply for a certificate on the right to receive healthcare or a European Health Insurance Card (in Swedish)
            
            
 To the e-service
If you are unable to use the e-service, you can send in this form:
5435 Application for a certificate of entitlement to medical care
 Pdf, 908 kB.
Websites on cross-border work
These three websites contain information about being a cross boarder worker in Sweden, Denmark, Norway and Finland.
Øresunddirekt (Sweden-Denmark)
Øresunddirekt (oresunddirekt.se)
 External link, opens in new window.
Grensetjänsten (Sweden-Norway)
Grensetjansten (grensetjansten.com)
 External link, opens in new window.
Nordkalottens Gränstjänst (Sweden, Finland and Norway)
Nordkalottens Gränstjanst (granstjanst.se)
 External link, opens in new window.
        If you work in Sweden, but live in another country within the EU/EEA, in Switzerland or in the United Kingdom
    
    
If you live in one country but work in another within the EU/EEA, in Switzerland or in the United Kingdom, you are covered by the social insurance legislation of the country where you work. This means that you may be eligible for benefits from that country if, for example, you become ill.
If you work in Sweden and live in another country within the EU/EEA, in Switzerland or in the United Kingdom, you are covered by Swedish legislation and can get benefits from Försäkringskassan. You may also be eligible for a Swedish EHIC (EU-kort) and certificate E106 (S1) which entitles you to healthcare benefits in your country of residence.
To receive healthcare in Sweden, you need a certificate on the right to healthcare in Sweden. You apply for the EHIC (EU-kort) and the two certificates in the same service on My Pages.
Longer processing times
At the moment we have longer processing times than usual. We apologise for this and are doing our utmost to shorten them.
            
                Apply for a certificate on the right to receive healthcare or a European Health Insurance Card (in Swedish)
            
            
 To the e-service
If you are unable to use he e-service, you can send in this form:
5435 Application for a certificate of entitlement to medical care
 Pdf, 908 kB.
You are eligible for dental care in Sweden and do not need a certificate to get it.
Dental care subsidy
Your family may be eligible for healthcare benefits
Your family members who do not work in the country of residence may also be eligible for healthcare benefits at the standard patient fee both in your country of residence and in Sweden when you work in Sweden. Contact the equivalent of Försäkringskassan in your country of residence to find out what applies what to your family members.
        If you have been posted to work in Sweden by a foreign employer
    
    
When you are posted to Sweden and work here for an employer from another country, you are usually covered by the social insurance legislation of the other country, but the rules differ depending on which country you are posted from.
If you are posted from an EU/EEA country, Switzerland or the United Kingdom
You or your employer must apply for certificate A1. Contact the equivalent of Försäkringskassan in the country where you are employed to obtain the certificate.
What is certificate A1?
You need to have certificate A1 when you work as an employee or self-employed person in more than one country within the EU/EEA, in Switzerland or in the United Kingdom. The certificate shows in which country's social insurance legislation you are to be covered by. It is that country that you can receive benefits from and to that country that social security contributions are paid for you. You will receive the certificate from the social insurance office in the country whose legislation you are covered by. In Sweden it is Försäkringskassan. The certificate is valid until the date on the certificate or until the authority withdraws it.
You or your employer may present the certificate to the relevant institutions of the countries in which you work to demonstrate that social security contributions are not to be paid for you there.
If you are posted from a country outside the EU/EEA, Switzerland and the United Kingdom
Sweden has social security agreements with a number of countries. The rules laid out in the agreement differ from country to country. The agreements may cover different things, like pension benefits, child allowance, parental benefit or sickness benefit. If an agreement applies to your situation, it may affect your right to the benefits included in the contract.
The rules for posting differ between the agreements. You apply for a certificate on which country's social insurance legislation you are to be covered at the equivalent of the Social Insurance Agency in the country that you are posted from. This applies to the following countries with which Försäkringskassan has an agreement:
Bosnia Herzegovina
Chile
Republic of the Philippines
India
Israel 
Canada 
Cape Verde
Morocco 
Quebec 
Serbia 
South Korea 
Turkey 
USA
If you are posted from a country that is not listed above, you do not need to present a certificate from the other country.
        If you work in several countries within the EU/EEA, in Switzerland or in the United Kingdom
    
    
If you will be working in Sweden and other countries within the EU/EEA, in Switzerland or in the United Kingdom, you must report this to the equivalent of Försäkringskassan in your country of residence. That authority will then investigate which country's social insurance legislation you are to be covered by. This needs to be done in order for you to receive healthcare benefits and compensation from the right country and for you or your employer to know which country social security contributions should be paid to.
Work in several countries within the EU/EEA or Switzerland and United Kingdom
        Related links
    
Learn more about Försäkringskassan
Introduction to the Swedish social insurance and Försäkringskassan
Work in Sweden
Working in Sweden (sweden.se)
 External link, opens in new window.
          Do you want information in another language than English?
    
        Information in other languages
        
    
Last updated: 
2025-02-25
            Your Europe (europa.eu)
        
            Help us improve (foq.youreurope.europa.eu)
        
            Contact Assistance Service (asf.youreurope.europa.eu)