Car allowance for a child - Försäkringskassan
Cookies used by the Swedish Social Insurance Agency
 
On forsakringskassan.se, we use cookies to make the website work as well as possible for you.
We also use cookies for web analytics that help us to improve the website.
 
How the Swedish Social Insurance Agency uses cookies
 
Do you accept our use of cookies for web analytics?
 
Yes, I accept all cookies
 
No, I only accept necessary cookies
Go to content
Keep in mind...
You are using an older version of your web browser. This means that you might not be able to use all of the functions of the website. We recommend that you update to a newer version.
Car allowance for a child
Car allowance is a grant for persons with a child who has severe difficulties moving about due to a disability or taking public transportation, like a bus or train, with you. Car allowance is intended to help you purchase or adapt a vehicle to meet the child's needs.
Am I eligible for car allowance?
You are eligible for car allowance if
you have a child with a disability that makes it very difficult for the child to move about or to take public transportation with you
the difficulties related to the child’s disability must persist at least 9 years
you need a vehicle to be able to move about with the child
you are the individual who will drive the vehicle
you and the child live together
you are insured in Sweden.
Car adaptation grant
If you need to adapt a vehicle for your child, you can apply for car adaptation grant for certain costs, for example to modify the vehicle. We will contact you after receiving your application. At that time, you will receive more information about what rules apply and what requirements may be set for the vehicle.
You can generally receive a grant in the amount that the adaptation that is deemed necessary costs.
How do I apply?
1. Contact your doctor. 
You need a doctor's statement that describes
your child’s difficulties moving about and/or travelling using public transportation
how long and in what scope the child's difficulties are expected to last
We recommend that your doctor fill in this form
3222 Läkarutlåtande för bilstöd (in Swedish)
 Pdf, 962 kB.
2. Apply
Apply for car allowance on My pages (Mina sidor).
            
                Apply for car allowance (in Swedish)
            
            
 To the e-service
3. Attach a digital copy of the doctor’s statement
Once you have signed your application, attach a digital copy of your doctor’s statement. You can take a clear photo of it and then attach the picture on My pages (Mina sidor). It is also possible to attach a scanned copy.
If you cannot make a digital copy, send in your doctor's statement to:
Försäkringskassans inläsningscentral 
839 88 Östersund.
4. An administrative officer will contact you
An administrative officer will confirm receipt of your application within two weeks. You must not buy the vehicle until you receive a decision on car allowance.
        Related links
    
Learn more about Försäkringskassan
Social insurance system
Healthcare
Information about healthcare in Sweden (1177.se)
 External link, opens in new window.
          Do you want information in another language than English?
    
        Information in other languages
        
    
Last updated: 
2025-03-04
            Your Europe (europa.eu)
        
            Help us improve (foq.youreurope.europa.eu)
        
            Contact Assistance Service (asf.youreurope.europa.eu)