How and when your benefits are paid - Försäkringskassan
Cookies used by the Swedish Social Insurance Agency
 
On forsakringskassan.se, we use cookies to make the website work as well as possible for you.
We also use cookies for web analytics that help us to improve the website.
 
How the Swedish Social Insurance Agency uses cookies
 
Do you accept our use of cookies for web analytics?
 
Yes, I accept all cookies
 
No, I only accept necessary cookies
Go to content
Keep in mind...
You are using an older version of your web browser. This means that you might not be able to use all of the functions of the website. We recommend that you update to a newer version.
How and when your benefits are paid
The average time required to process an application and issue a payment can vary based on the type of benefit, the volume of applications we receive and the specifics of your case.
You can track your case and payment through our app or by logging into My Pages (Mina sidor). Register your email or phone number on your profile (Mina uppgifter) to receive alerts directly. We will get in touch with you if we need more information to process your application.
Currently it is taking longer than usual to get through to our call centre and processing times are delayed. If you have trouble reaching our call centre, please check the latest updates for each benefit on the page "Utbetalningsdatum och handläggningstider" (in Swedish):
Information about when you receive your payments:
Utbetalningsdatum och handläggningstider (in Swedish)
General Payment Schedule:
Payments scheduled for a Saturday will be issued on the preceding Friday.
Payments scheduled for a Sunday will be made the following Monday.
Payments scheduled for a public holiday will issued on the next working day.
Payments due on the 25th, 26th, or 27th of December 2024 will issued on the 23rd of December.
More than Six Months
If you have not received a response or decision within six months from the application date, send a letter of appeal giving us four weeks to reply. Provide your name, personal identity number, address, phone number and what benefit you applied for. Send your letter to:
Försäkringskassans Inläsningscentral
839 88 Östersund
        Related links
    
Learn more about Försäkringskassan
Social insurance system
Healthcare
Information about healthcare in Sweden (1177.se)
 External link, opens in new window.
          Do you want information in another language than English?
    
        Information in other languages
        
    
Last updated: 
2025-01-16
            Your Europe (europa.eu)
        
            Help us improve (foq.youreurope.europa.eu)
        
            Contact Assistance Service (asf.youreurope.europa.eu)