Sickness benefit for those with sole proprietorship - Försäkringskassan
Cookies used by the Swedish Social Insurance Agency
 
On forsakringskassan.se, we use cookies to make the website work as well as possible for you.
We also use cookies for web analytics that help us to improve the website.
 
How the Swedish Social Insurance Agency uses cookies
 
Do you accept our use of cookies for web analytics?
 
Yes, I accept all cookies
 
No, I only accept necessary cookies
Go to content
Keep in mind...
You are using an older version of your web browser. This means that you might not be able to use all of the functions of the website. We recommend that you update to a newer version.
Sickness benefit for those with sole proprietorship
Sickness benefit for those with sole proprietorship
Am I eligible for sickness benefit?
You are eligible for sickness benefit if you:
are unable to work during your regular working hours due to illness. You must be away at least one-fourth of your regular working hours to be able to receive sickness benefit.
lose work-related income that is sickness benefit qualifying income.
are insured in Sweden.
How many qualifying days do I have?
Qualifying days are the days at the beginning of a sickness absence when you do not receive compensation. If you are self-employed, you can choose the number of qualifying days you want. If you do not make a choice, you are automatically assigned 7 qualifying days.
        You can change your qualifying period
    
    
You can choose between 1, 14, 30, 60 or 90 days for your qualifying period. The more qualifying days you choose, the lower your health insurance fee. During the qualifying period, you receive no sickness benefit.
Once you have turned 55, you cannot change to a shorter qualifying period.
The easiest way to report a change to your qualifying period is on My pages (Mina sidor).
            
                Report qualifying period for sickness benefit - if you own your business (in Swedish)
            
            
 To the e-service
How do I apply?
1. Report your sickness
Report your sickness the very first day you are sick.
            
                Report your sickness (in Swedish)
            
            
 To the e-service
2. Apply for sickness benefit
After reporting your sickness, log in to My pages (Mina sidor) to apply for sickness benefit.
            
                Apply for sickness benefit (in Swedish)
            
            
 To the e-service
3. Send in doctor's certificate
If you are sick for more than 7 days, you must send in a doctor's certificate with information about your illness or injury. In most counties, electronic certificates can be issued. You can then send in your certificate on Mina intyg on 1177 Vårdguiden.
Intyg (1177.se)
 External link, opens in new window.
If you have received your doctor's certificate on paper and for some reason it has not been sent electronically to us, send the original to:
Försäkringskassans Inläsningscentral
839 88 Östersund
4. Disbursement
Information about when you receive your payments:
Utbetalningsdatum och handläggningstider
 (in Swedish)
 External link.
If you want to change any aspect of your sick leave
        If you want to extend your sick leave
    
    
Send in your new doctor’s certificate. You can do this digitally on Mina intyg on 1177 Vårdguiden.
Intyg (1177.se)
 External link, opens in new window.
If you answered yes when asked whether a new doctor’s certificate should serve to extend the sick leave when you applied for sickness benefit, then you do not need to do anything else.
If you answered no, an application form for extended sickness benefit will be sent to your home. You cannot apply for extended sickness benefit via Mina sidor (My pages).
        If you want to change the scope
    
    
If you begin working part time or in any other way change the scope of your sickness absence, you must notify us of this. This is done most easily via My pages (Mina sidor).
            
                Change scope of sickness benefit (in Swedish)
            
            
 To the e-service
        If you want to end your sickness benefit
    
    
If you want to end your sickness benefit before the end of your registered sick leave period, you can do this on My pages (Mina sidor).
            
                End sickness benefit (in Swedish)
            
            
 To the e-service
If you cannot use My pages (Mina sidor), call the Customer Centre or contact your personal administrative officer.
What happens if I am sick for a longer period of time?
If you are sick for a long time, we will contact you after you have received your first payment. You can receive help with anything related to sickness benefit.
If necessary, you will work together to develop a plan to get you back to work. We can also book meetings with the Swedish Public Employment Service and your doctor so you can work as a team to develop a solid plan. The amount of contact you have with us depends on how much help you need and how long you are on sick leave.
        What happens if I am still on sick leave after 1 year?
    
    
When you have received sickness benefit for 364 days, your compensation will be reduced from the normal level of 80 percent to a continuation level of 75 percent of your sickness benefit qualifying income (SGI).
Begreppet allvarlig sjukdom (Rättsligt ställningstagande 2025:03)
 Pdf, 245 kB, opens in new window.
        If you are invited to a meeting with the Swedish Public Employment Service
    
    
If you are at risk of no longer being able to receive compensation from the health insurance system, you will be invited to a meeting with the Swedish Public Employment Service. The meeting will involve a social insurance investigator from Försäkringskassan and an employment officer. The meeting is an opportunity for you to receive support on your journey from sick leave to working life.
        Related links
    
Learn more about Försäkringskassan
Social insurance system
Healthcare
Information about healthcare in Sweden (1177.se)
 External link, opens in new window.
          Do you want information in another language than English?
    
        Information in other languages
        
    
Last updated: 
2025-06-19
            Your Europe (europa.eu)
        
            Help us improve (foq.youreurope.europa.eu)
        
            Contact Assistance Service (asf.youreurope.europa.eu)