If you are a jobseeker and have a child - Försäkringskassan
Cookies used by the Swedish Social Insurance Agency
 
On forsakringskassan.se, we use cookies to make the website work as well as possible for you.
We also use cookies for web analytics that help us to improve the website.
 
How the Swedish Social Insurance Agency uses cookies
 
Do you accept our use of cookies for web analytics?
 
Yes, I accept all cookies
 
No, I only accept necessary cookies
Go to content
Keep in mind...
You are using an older version of your web browser. This means that you might not be able to use all of the functions of the website. We recommend that you update to a newer version.
If you are a jobseeker and have a child
Here you will find information about parental benefit, care of child (VAB) and how you protect your sickness benefit qualifying income (SGI) if you are on parental leave and become a jobseeker.
If you are expecting a child
If you are a jobseeker and expecting a child, you can receive parental benefit once the child is born. Here, the rules are the same whether or not you were working. The only difference is how your money is calculated.
        If you were working before becoming a jobseeker
    
    
If you were working before becoming a jobseeker, you can receive parental benefit based on the income you received when working. This is because you have what is called sickness benefit qualifying income (SGI).
To receive money based on your SGI, you must: have registered with the Swedish Public Employment Service on the first weekday you became unemployed; and, still be registered.
If you worked for 6 months or more before you became unemployed, it is sufficient that you registered with the Swedish Public Employment Service within 3 months of becoming unemployed.
        If you were not working before you became a jobseeker
    
    
If you were not working before you became a jobseeker, you receive SEK 250 per day in what is called “parental benefit at sickness benefit level”.
For 10 days at a child’s birth, you cannot receive pregnancy benefit or allowance. This is because you are not losing any income.
If you are on parental leave
If you are drawing parental benefit and are, or will be, unemployed, you must contact us and give us the details.
The importance of protecting your sickness benefit qualifying income (SGI)
If your child is less than 1 year old, your SGI will remain protected until the child’s first birthday. Försäkringskassan calculates your parental benefit and care of child (VAB) money on the basis of your SGI. On your child’s first birthday, your SGI is protected if you:
register with the Swedish Public Employment Service no later than on your child’s first birthday,
draw full parental benefit at least 5 days per week as of your child’s first birthday.
If you draw less parental benefit or stop drawing it completely, you must, to retain your previous SGI, register with the Swedish Public Employment Service. This must be done on the same day.
If you are caring for a sick child
If you are receiving unemployment benefits, you may be entitled to VAB money when you are taking care of your sick child.
Care of a sick child (VAB)
        This is what you do if you are participating in a Swedish Public Employment Service programme
    
    
Inform the Swedish Public Employment Service if you are taking care of a sick child and cannot participate in your programme. When you apply for money, indicate which days you were absent for temporary care of child. You receive money for the days when you took care of your sick child.
            
                Apply for activity grant, development allowance and introduction benefit (in Swedish)
            
            
 To the e-service
If you cannot log in to My pages (Mina sidor), apply via this form:
7114 Application form for programme money from the Swedish Public Employment Service
 Pdf, 846 kB.
        Related links
    
Learn more about Försäkringskassan
Social insurance system
Healthcare
Information about healthcare in Sweden (1177.se)
 External link, opens in new window.
          Do you want information in another language than English?
    
        Information in other languages
        
    
Last updated: 
2025-02-27
            Your Europe (europa.eu)
        
            Help us improve (foq.youreurope.europa.eu)
        
            Contact Assistance Service (asf.youreurope.europa.eu)