Sick often or for a long time – special high risk protection - Försäkringskassan
Cookies used by the Swedish Social Insurance Agency
 
On forsakringskassan.se, we use cookies to make the website work as well as possible for you.
We also use cookies for web analytics that help us to improve the website.
 
How the Swedish Social Insurance Agency uses cookies
 
Do you accept our use of cookies for web analytics?
 
Yes, I accept all cookies
 
No, I only accept necessary cookies
Go to content
Keep in mind...
You are using an older version of your web browser. This means that you might not be able to use all of the functions of the website. We recommend that you update to a newer version.
Sick often or for a long time – special high risk protection
Special high risk protection means that you as an employer can receive compensation for your sick pay costs if the employee is at risk of having long periods of illness or of being sick often. Employees who are sick often can also be exempt from a qualifying deduction.
Can I receive compensation for my sick pay costs?
If the employee has applied for and been granted entitlement to special high risk protection, you as an employer can apply for compensation for the full sick pay cost from Försäkringskassan.
Employees are covered by special high risk protection if it is likely that illness or disability will cause them to be
sick often (more than ten times in one year),
or sick for a long period of time (more than 28 consecutive days).
        How the qualifying period works with special high risk protection
    
    
An employee who is sick often is entitled to sick pay from the first day. You as employer pay sick pay for the first 14 days without making a qualifying deduction. You then apply for compensation from Försäkringskassan for your sick pay costs.
The employee does not avoid the qualifying deduction if he/she has received special high risk protection because he/she is at risk of being sick for extended periods.
What do I need to do to receive the compensation?
1. The employee applies for special high risk protection
2. The employee notifies you if the application is granted
If the application is granted, the employee will notify you. He/she will give you a written notification stating for what period he/she will receive special high risk protection and what it means for you as an employer. The decision comes into force at the earliest in the month when the application was submitted to us.
It usually takes 30 days to process the case from the date when the application is received. It may take more time if we need to request more information.
3. Fill in the employer application form
7467 Application for compensation for sick pay costs for an employee with special high risk protection
 Pdf, 788 kB.
4. Submit the employer application form
Submit the application to:
Försäkringskassans inläsningscentral 
839 88 Östersund
5. Disbursement
It usually takes 30 days to process your case from the date when the application is received. It may take more time if we need to request more information.
Disbursement is not paid out on a fixed date. It is instead paid once we have completed the processing work.
What do I do if the employee with special high risk protection falls ill?
The employee notifies you as employer in the usual way when he/she falls ill and you pay out sick pay to the employee. You then apply for compensation for sick pay costs from Försäkringskassan.
        Related links
    
Learn more about Försäkringskassan
Social insurance system
Healthcare
Information about healthcare in Sweden (1177.se)
 External link, opens in new window.
          Do you want information in another language than English?
    
        Information in other languages
        
    
Last updated: 
2025-02-27
            Your Europe (europa.eu)
        
            Help us improve (foq.youreurope.europa.eu)
        
            Contact Assistance Service (asf.youreurope.europa.eu)