EU family benefits - Försäkringskassan
Cookies used by the Swedish Social Insurance Agency
 
On forsakringskassan.se, we use cookies to make the website work as well as possible for you.
We also use cookies for web analytics that help us to improve the website.
 
How the Swedish Social Insurance Agency uses cookies
 
Do you accept our use of cookies for web analytics?
 
Yes, I accept all cookies
 
No, I only accept necessary cookies
Go to content
Keep in mind...
You are using an older version of your web browser. This means that you might not be able to use all of the functions of the website. We recommend that you update to a newer version.
EU family benefits
Here you can read about what benefits your family may be entitled to when you or a family member lives in, works in or receives a pension from another EU/EEA country or Switzerland.
Can I receive family benefits?
You may be entitled to a Swedish family benefit if you meet the requirements of a family benefit. Read more about the requirements for each benefit.
Swedish family benefits:
child allowance, extended child allowance and supplement for large families
parts of the housing allowance
parental benefit
survivor’s support
survivor's benefit
study allowance.
Family benefits are not managed only by Försäkringskassan. Study allowance is coordinated by both Försäkringskassan and the Swedish Board of Student Finance, CSN. It is always CSN that decides if you are entitled to study aid from Sweden. In some situations, study allowance is paid by Försäkringskassan and in others by CSN.
The Swedish Board of Student Finance (www.csn.se)
 External link, opens in new window.
It is the Swedish Pensions Agency that decides on the right to survivor's benefit.
The Swedish Pensions Agency (www.pensionsmyndigheten.se)
 External link, opens in new window.
What do I need to do to receive family benefits?
Depending on the family benefit, you need to do it in different ways. Read more about what to do for each benefit. You will also need to tell us which other EU/EEA country and Switzerland your case applies to. Notify us if:
you or the other parent live, work or receive pension in another country
your child lives in or receives an orphan's pension from another country.
How is responsibility shared between countries?
Within the EU/EEA and Switzerland, there is a common regulatory framework (Regulation (EC) No 883/2004 of the European Parliament and of the Council) on the coordination of family benefits between countries. The regulatory framework describes which country is primarily responsible for paying family benefits. The other country may pay a differential supplement if the benefits are higher there.
Försäkringskassan contacts the competent authority in the other country. Together we coordinate the responsibility for paying you family benefits. You cannot choose which country you want to receive family benefits from.
        If parents work in different countries
    
    
If you and the other parent work in different countries, you may be entitled to family benefits from both countries. The country in which the child resides should then pay benefits for the child. If the benefits are higher in the other country, that country must pay the difference, a so-called differential supplement.
        If parents receive a pension from different countries
    
    
If you and the other parent receive pensions in different countries, you may be entitled to family benefits from both countries. The country in which the child resides should then pay family benefits. If the benefits are higher in the other country, that country may pay the difference, a so-called differential supplement.
        If one parent works in one country and the other parent receives a pension from another country
    
    
If you work in one country and the other parent has a pension from another country, the country of work must primarily pay benefits for the child. This applies no matter where the child lives. If the benefits are higher in the pension country, that country must pay the difference, a so-called differential supplement.
        If one parent works in or receives a pension from one country and the rest of the family lives in another country
    
    
If you work in one country and the other parent lives (without working) in another country with the child, you may be entitled to family benefits from both countries. In the first instance, the country of work must pay family benefits. If the benefits are higher in the child’s country of residence, that country must pay the difference, a so-called differential supplement.
When will I receive the money?
You will receive the money on different dates depending on the benefit. Usually, the payment is made to your account once a month.
Report changes
Report changes to Försäkringskassan no later than 14 days after you learned about the changes. Notify us if:
any family member moves, permanently or temporarily
you or another family member starts or stops working in Sweden or in another country
you or another family member are granted a pension from Sweden or from another country
the number of family members changes
family benefits that you or the other parent receive from the other country change, such as an increase in the amount.
If you receive family benefits to which you are not entitled, you may be required to pay the money back to Försäkringskassan.
        Related links
    
Learn more about Försäkringskassan
Introduction to the Swedish social insurance and Försäkringskassan
Family benefits
Child allowance
Parental benefit
Housing allowance for families with children
          Do you want information in another language than English?
    
        Information in other languages
        
    
Last updated: 
2025-03-04
            Your Europe (europa.eu)
        
            Help us improve (foq.youreurope.europa.eu)
        
            Contact Assistance Service (asf.youreurope.europa.eu)