Sick during pregnancy - Försäkringskassan
Cookies used by the Swedish Social Insurance Agency
 
On forsakringskassan.se, we use cookies to make the website work as well as possible for you.
We also use cookies for web analytics that help us to improve the website.
 
How the Swedish Social Insurance Agency uses cookies
 
Do you accept our use of cookies for web analytics?
 
Yes, I accept all cookies
 
No, I only accept necessary cookies
Go to content
Keep in mind...
You are using an older version of your web browser. This means that you might not be able to use all of the functions of the website. We recommend that you update to a newer version.
Sick during pregnancy
Read here about what applies if you get sick during pregnancy.
Am I eligible for sickness benefit?
If you get sick and have a diminished work capacity, you receive sickness benefit in the same way you would have if you were not pregnant.
However, normal pregnancy difficulties such as back pain and fatigue are not counted as illness and consequently do not entitle to sickness benefit.
Although if you have pregnancy difficulties that are unusually severe, they can however be counted as an illness and entitle to sickness benefit. In order to obtain the right decision, it is important that your difficulties are clear in the certificate the doctor writes.
Sickness benefit
What applies if I am too tired to work, but am not sick?
If you have difficulties during pregnancy that do not entitle to sickness benefit, you can take out parental benefit as of 60 days before the estimated delivery.
Parental benefit before the birth of the child
What do I do if my job is too dangerous or physically demanding?
If you have a physically demanding job or if there are risks in the working environment, you can apply for pregnancy benefit.
How do I register and apply for parental benefits before the child is born?
You must first register that you will be on leave and then apply for the benefit.
Pregnancy benefit
        Related links
    
Learn more about Försäkringskassan
Social insurance system
Healthcare
Information about healthcare in Sweden (1177.se)
 External link, opens in new window.
          Do you want information in another language than English?
    
        Information in other languages
        
    
Last updated: 
2024-07-16
            Your Europe (europa.eu)
        
            Help us improve (foq.youreurope.europa.eu)
        
            Contact Assistance Service (asf.youreurope.europa.eu)