Sickness benefit for personal injury during military training or while serving in civil defence - Försäkringskassan
Cookies used by the Swedish Social Insurance Agency
 
On forsakringskassan.se, we use cookies to make the website work as well as possible for you.
We also use cookies for web analytics that help us to improve the website.
 
How the Swedish Social Insurance Agency uses cookies
 
Do you accept our use of cookies for web analytics?
 
Yes, I accept all cookies
 
No, I only accept necessary cookies
Go to content
Keep in mind...
You are using an older version of your web browser. This means that you might not be able to use all of the functions of the website. We recommend that you update to a newer version.
Sickness benefit for personal injury during military training or while serving in civil defence
If you suffered a personal injury during military training or while serving in civil defence, but cannot receive sickness benefit or if your sickness benefit is low, you can apply for sickness benefit under the national personal injury programme or special sickness benefit.
        Special sickness benefit
    
    
Special sickness benefit is compensation paid to recruits who were injured or are sick. The sickness or injury does not have to have occurred during service.  
Can I receive special sickness benefit?
Yes, if the protection period has run out you can receive special sickness benefit if
you have undergone or plan to undergo military training as part of the Swedish Armed Forces and this will last longer than 60 days
you received the injury during the discharge month or the month after the discharge month
the injury or sickness impairs your ability to obtain income through work by at least one-fourth.
The protection period is the time spanning from when you begin travel to your service until you complete your travel home.
How do I apply?
Report your sickness to Försäkringskassan the very first day you are sick.
            
                Report your sickness (in Swedish)
            
            
 To the e-service
You will then be sent a form for applying for sickness benefit, which you send in to Försäkringskassan.
        Sickness benefit under the national personal injury protection
    
    
If you have low or no sickness benefit qualifying income (SGI), you can apply for sickness benefit under the national personal injury protection.
Can I receive sickness benefit under the national personal injury protection?
Yes, if
you have completed military training
you have an approved personal injury
your approved injury impairs your ability to obtain income through work by at least one-fourth.
How do I apply?
Report your sickness to Försäkringskassan the very first day you are sick.
            
                Report your sickness (in Swedish)
            
            
 To the e-service
        Occupational injury sickness benefit for qualifying days
    
    
If you have a personal injury and have had qualifying days (waiting period), you can receive occupational injury sickness benefit for the qualifying days. Everyone granted annuity or sickness benefit from the national personal injury protection receives compensation for two qualifying days.
In certain cases, you can also apply for additional days of occupational injury sickness benefit for qualifying days. Such cases are if
you can prove that you lost income for at least three qualifying days, for example with a pay slip that specifies your pay deduction.
you have a medical document that shows that the qualifying days are due to your already approved personal injury.
you have been granted annuity or sickness benefit according to the national personal injury protection.
How do I apply?
Compensation for the first two qualifying days is paid automatically when you receive the first disbursement of sickness benefit or annuity.
        Related links
    
Learn more about Försäkringskassan
Social insurance system
Healthcare
Information about healthcare in Sweden (1177.se)
 External link, opens in new window.
          Do you want information in another language than English?
    
        Information in other languages
        
    
Last updated: 
2025-02-28
            Your Europe (europa.eu)
        
            Help us improve (foq.youreurope.europa.eu)
        
            Contact Assistance Service (asf.youreurope.europa.eu)