Insured in Sweden - Försäkringskassan
Cookies used by the Swedish Social Insurance Agency
 
On forsakringskassan.se, we use cookies to make the website work as well as possible for you.
We also use cookies for web analytics that help us to improve the website.
 
How the Swedish Social Insurance Agency uses cookies
 
Do you accept our use of cookies for web analytics?
 
Yes, I accept all cookies
 
No, I only accept necessary cookies
Go to content
Keep in mind...
You are using an older version of your web browser. This means that you might not be able to use all of the functions of the website. We recommend that you update to a newer version.
Insured in Sweden
Here you can read about what applies when you are insured in Sweden. Being insured in Sweden means that you can receive benefits from Försäkringskassan. Some benefits can be obtained if you live in Sweden and others if you work here.
When you apply for a benefit from Försäkringskassan, we always make an assessment of whether you are insured in Sweden before we pay you the benefit. This means that if you live or work in another country you may need to supplement with details of your residence and work before your application for a benefit can be processed. The same applies if you have previously lived or worked in another country.
The assessment of whether you are insured in Sweden is governed by the Social Insurance Code and international agreements and regulations. The purpose of the agreements and regulations is to determine which country's social security legislation applies in a given situation, so that only tone country’s legislation becomes applicable.
If you have always lived in Sweden and have never worked in another country
, you are insured in Sweden and may be entitled to various benefits from Försäkringskassan.
If you have moved to or from Sweden, or if you work or have recently worked abroad,
 you may be insured for certain benefits from Försäkringskassan but not for all of them.
The laws and regulations that we use to assess whether you are insured in Sweden are available in Swedish on the page Terms and Conditions.
Laws and regulation (in Swedish)
        Benefits from Försäkringskassan based on you living in Sweden
    
    
To be entitled to the following benefits, you must live in Sweden:
adoption allowance if you adopt a child who does not live in Sweden or is not a Swedish citizen
activity compensation and sickness compensation in the form of guarantee benefit
assistance compensation
child allowance and extended child allowance
car allowance
housing allowance
housing supplement
compensation under the reciprocal healthcare agreement
parental benefit at the minimum level and basic level
disability allowance
rehabilitation, allowance for workplace assistive devices, special allowance and rehabilitation allowance in specific cases
sickness benefit in special cases and housing supplement
national dental care subsidy
maintenance support
childcare allowance.
You are entitled to these benefits if you are considered to be resident in Sweden according to the laws and regulations governing social insurance in Sweden. In order to determine if you live in Sweden, Försäkringskassan weighs in on, among other things, how you live, from which country you receive your income, how long you are going to stay in Sweden and how often you visit other countries. It also matters where your family members live. If you
live in Sweden but work in another EU/EEA country or Switzerland, you usually cannot be covered by Swedish social insurance legislation, as you cannot be subject to the legislation of two countries at the same time
live in another EU/EEA country or Switzerland but work in Sweden, you may be subject to Swedish social insurance legislation
move abroad for longer periods, it may affect whether you are covered by Swedish social insurance legislation.
        Benefits from Försäkringskassan based on work
    
    
To be entitled to the following benefits, you must work or have worked in Sweden:
occupational injury compensation
parental benefit at the sickness benefit level and basic level
pregnancy benefit
income related activity compensation and sickness compensation
benefit for care of closely related persons
rehabilitation, rehabilitation allowance and grant for assistive devices
sickness benefit
temporary parental benefit.
You are entitled to these benefits if you are considered to be a resident in Sweden according to the laws and regulations governing social insurance in Sweden. In order for you to be considered to work, you must be or have been employed, self-employed or contractor here. However, if you also work in another country, it may affect what benefits you are entitled to. Some benefits from Försäkringskassan can only be received if you lose your earnings.
If you live in Sweden you are still insured for work-based benefits for at least three months after you have stopped working here. During this time, you may continue to be entitled to benefits from Försäkringskassan. The same applies if you move to a country outside the EU/EEA or Switzerland.
If you live in or move to another country within the EU/EEA or Switzerland, you should usually belong to the other country's social security legislation when you stop working in Sweden. You are then no longer insured in Sweden and cannot receive work-based compensation from Försäkringskassan. However, if you are already receiving a compensation based on work, you may in certain cases continue to receive it and also be granted other benefits.
If you start working in another country, you can usually no longer be insured in Sweden for work-based compensation.
        Related links
    
Learn more about Försäkringskassan
Social insurance system
Healthcare
Information about healthcare in Sweden (1177.se)
 External link, opens in new window.
          Do you want information in another language than English?
    
        Information in other languages
        
    
Last updated: 
2025-03-03
            Your Europe (europa.eu)
        
            Help us improve (foq.youreurope.europa.eu)
        
            Contact Assistance Service (asf.youreurope.europa.eu)