Maintenance support when the child lives with you - Försäkringskassan
Cookies used by the Swedish Social Insurance Agency
 
On forsakringskassan.se, we use cookies to make the website work as well as possible for you.
We also use cookies for web analytics that help us to improve the website.
 
How the Swedish Social Insurance Agency uses cookies
 
Do you accept our use of cookies for web analytics?
 
Yes, I accept all cookies
 
No, I only accept necessary cookies
Go to content
Keep in mind...
You are using an older version of your web browser. This means that you might not be able to use all of the functions of the website. We recommend that you update to a newer version.
Maintenance support when the child lives with you
Maintenance support is money that you can apply for when the other parent who is supposed to pay child support does not pay.
Am I eligible for maintenance support?
Yes, you can receive maintenance support if you and the other parent cannot agree on maintenance support or if the other parent cannot pay. This applies if
you have custody of the child
you and the other parent are not in a relationship
you and the other parent do not live together
the other parent does not pay maintenance at all, pays a lower amount than the maintenance allowance or does not pay on time.
the child is under 18 years of age
the child is registered with you
you and the child live in Sweden.
        If the child is over 18 years old
    
    
Young people over the age of 18 can receive extended maintenance support up to June of the year that they turn 20. To be entitled to maintenance support, the child must
attend school full time at the compulsory school level, upper-secondary level or the equivalent
receive financial aid or extended child allowance
live and be registered with one of the parents or somebody else who was the guardian when the child turned 18
not be or have been married.
It is the child himself who applies for extended maintenance support.
            
                Apply for extended maintenance support (in Swedish)
            
            
 To the e-service
How do I apply?
1. Apply
You apply for maintenance support on My pages (Mina sidor).
            
                Apply for maintenance support (in Swedish)
            
            
 To the e-service
        If you cannot apply using My pages (Mina sidor)
    
    
Apply using the form.
5012 Apply for maintenace support (in Swedish)
 Pdf, 822 kB.
2. You receive a decision
If your application is complete, you will receive a decision within no more than 6 weeks. If the other parent lives abroad, it takes no more than 17 weeks.
3. Disbursement
Information about when you receive your payments:
Utbetalningsdatum och handläggningstider (in Swedish)
 External link.
4. The other parent must pay to Försäkringskassan
If you receive maintenance support, the other parent must pay back all or part of the maintenance support to Försäkringskassan.
5. Contact us if your situation changes
Notify us if anything changes that may affect your maintenance support, for example if the other parent begins paying support directly to you, or pays more than before. Call the Customer Centre at 
0771‑524 524
 to report the change.
If the other parent has paid in time to Försäkringskassan on time for twelve months
If the other parent has made on-time payments to Försäkringskassan for at least twelve consecutive months, you will both receive a letter indicating that we will no longer pay out maintenance support. This is because there is no reason for Försäkringskassan to serve as an intermediary for payments. The other parent can instead pay child support directly to you.
You must work together to decide on an amount for child support. With the “Calculate child support” (Beräkna underhållsbidrag) tool, you will get a suggested amount for child support and an agreement template. You can use the calculation and agreement template to create a valid agreement on child support.
            
                Calculate child support
            
            
 To the e-service
What do we do if we cannot reach an agreement?
The municipality also offers free cooperation discussions to help resolve issues related to custody, access (visitation), residence and support of the child. There, you receive help in finding common solutions for the child's best interest without having to go to court. Contact your municipality.
If you have had cooperation discussions and Försäkringskassan has helped you calculate child support but you still cannot agree on issues relating to the child, you can take the matter to the district court. Contact a legal representative to find out what you should do.
        Related links
    
Learn more about Försäkringskassan
Social insurance system
Healthcare
Information about healthcare in Sweden (1177.se)
 External link, opens in new window.
          Do you want information in another language than English?
    
        Information in other languages
        
    
Last updated: 
2025-04-02
            Your Europe (europa.eu)
        
            Help us improve (foq.youreurope.europa.eu)
        
            Contact Assistance Service (asf.youreurope.europa.eu)