Activity grant or development allowance when you participate in a Swedish Public Employment Service programme - Försäkringskassan
Cookies used by the Swedish Social Insurance Agency
 
On forsakringskassan.se, we use cookies to make the website work as well as possible for you.
We also use cookies for web analytics that help us to improve the website.
 
How the Swedish Social Insurance Agency uses cookies
 
Do you accept our use of cookies for web analytics?
 
Yes, I accept all cookies
 
No, I only accept necessary cookies
Go to content
Keep in mind...
You are using an older version of your web browser. This means that you might not be able to use all of the functions of the website. We recommend that you update to a newer version.
Activity grant or development allowance when you participate in a Swedish Public Employment Service programme
When you participate in a Swedish Public Employment Service programme, you may qualify for an activity grant or a development allowance. This is the case whether you are a jobseeker, student or someone starting your own business. Below, there is information about: applying; how much money you receive; and, the rules when you are ill or absent.
        What are the Swedish Public Employment Service’s programmes?
    
    
There are eight different Swedish Public Employment Service programmes that may qualify you for an activity grant or a development allowance:
labour market training,
work experience,
preparation activities,
the job and development programme,
job guarantee for young people,
project with labour market focus,
support to start up a business,
validation.
There is also an introduction programme for newly arrived immigrants. This may qualify you for an introduction benefit.
Compensation you receive when participating in the Swedish Public Employment Service’s introduction programme
More information about the programmes is available on the Swedish Public Employment Service’s website.
Arbetsförmedlingen (arbetsformedlingen.se)
 External link, opens in new window.
How do I apply?
Apply in the month after participating
You apply for money “in arrears”. In other words, you apply in the month after you participated in your programme. For example, if you participated in a programme in September, you apply for money in October. A blue button appears on My pages (Mina sidor) when you can apply.
Apply in time
There are two important things to remember when applying:
Apply between the 1st and the 7th of the month. You then receive the money on the 26th of the same month.
You can apply later, but you then have to wait for the money until the 26th of the next month.
Apply no later than the last day of the month after you participated in your programme. If you apply too late, you may not receive any money at all.
If you apply after the last day of the month following that in which you participated in the programme, you can only receive money if there are special reasons. In this case, you must apply on a paper form and explain why you are applying late.
Apply on My pages (Mina sidor)
            
                Apply for activity grant, development allowance and introduction benefit (in Swedish)
            
            
 To the e-service
        If you cannot use My pages (Mina sidor)
    
    
If you do not have a bank ID, or if you are applying after the deadline, you must submit the application form 7114 application for activity grant, development allowance and introduction benefit.
7114 Application for activity grant, development allowance and Introduction benefit (in Swedish)
 Pdf, 846 kB.
Disbursement
Your money is normally paid on the 26th of the month. As soon as we have processed your application, you can see your provisional payment on My pages (Mina sidor). Your actual payment can be seen one banking day before the money arrives. You can choose to receive an SMS message about this.
        Other disbursement dates
    
    
If the 26th is a:
Saturday, you receive the money on Friday;
Sunday, you receive the money on Monday;
public holiday or Midsummer Eve, you receive the money on the next weekday.
If you fall ill
On the first day you are ill, notify the Swedish Public Employment Service. You can then keep your money.
Notifying absence when you are ill (arbetsformedlingen.se)
 External link, opens in new window.
When you apply for money, enter which days you participated in your programme and which days you were ill. Your first day of illness is a qualifying day for which there is no money. For the time you are absent owing to illness, you can then keep your money.
Ill longer than seven days
To keep your money if you are ill for more than seven days, you or your doctor must submit a medical certificate to the Swedish Public Employment Service. Tell your doctor that you are participating in a programme and ask him/her to complete the Swedish Public Employment Service’s medical certificate for participants in labour market policy programmes.
If you have to take care of your child (VAB)
You can keep your money if you cannot participate in your programme because one or more of your children are ill and you have to take care of them. If this happens, always notify the Swedish Public Employment Service.
When you apply for money, enter which days you participated in your programme and which days you were absent to take care of your child.
Other absence from your programme
You can keep your programme money in certain other circumstances (see below). In your application, enter which days you were absent and whether this was owing to a circumstance approved by the Swedish Public Employment Service.
Temporary interruption in your job and development programme. For temporary interruption, you can receive money for no more than 20 days in a twelve-month period.
Temporary interruption in a training programme or similar in summer. June – August, you can receive money for no more than 10 days’ interruption.
For participants in a job and development programme, other temporary interruptions are also possible (see below). In total, you can receive money for 30 days of temporary interruption in a 12-month period.
Private matter. Examples include moving house or attending a funeral. Absence may be no more than three days.
Care of someone who is close to you and seriously ill. If a family member or a near relation is seriously ill and may be near to death.
Incomes that affect money from Försäkringskassan
If you work and receive pay
If you work and receive pay for a day when you are also participating in a programme, your programme money has to be reduced. Thus, to receive the right money, it is important that, in your application, you enter how much you earned and how long you worked. This is also the case if you worked any evening or night after a programme day.
If your programme is full-time, your money is reduced by exactly how much you received in pay. If your pay is higher than the programme money, you receive no money for the day(s) in question.
If your programme is part-time, your money is reduced if your working hours together with your programme are more than full-time.
Inconvenient working hours supplement and commission are also regarded as paid work.
Other incomes that can reduce programme money
So that you receive the right money, you may have to inform Försäkringskassan if you have other incomes. Click the types of income below to read more about the rules for each one.
        Employment benefits from previous employers or a contractual group insurance policy
    
    
Employment benefits are incomes other than pay from an employer. Examples include:
severance pay,
redundancy pay,
notice-period pay,
damages,
money via a contractual group insurance policy with an insurance company.
In your application, you enter if you have any employment benefits. Your programme money is reduced if your employment benefits and the programme are, together, broadly equivalent to “full-time”
        Other money from Försäkringskassan
    
    
Other Försäkringskassan monies that can affect your programme money are parental benefit, sickness compensation, activity compensation and rehabilitation benefit. You do not need to inform us if you are receiving any of these.
Parental benefit
If you draw parental benefit for a day when you also participate in a programme, your programme money is reduced if the parental benefit and your programme are, together, more than “full-time”.
Sickness compensation and activity compensation
If you receive part-time sickness or activity compensation, your programme money is reduced if the sickness or activity compensation and your programme together equate to more than “full-time”. However, if you receive full-time sickness or activity compensation, you cannot receive any programme money.
Rehabilitation benefit
If you receive rehabilitation benefit, you cannot receive programme money at the same time.
        Student finance or education entry grant from the Swedish Board of Student Finance (CSN)
    
    
You cannot receive programme money while you are also receiving full student finance or a full education entry grant from CSN. If you are studying part-time and receiving student finance for part-time studies, your programme money is reduced on the basis of the extent of your studies. If you are studying half-time, you receive half the programme money. If you are studying 75 percent, you receive 25 percent of the programme money.
You do not need to inform us if you are receiving student finance or an education entry grant from CSN. We receive the details from CSN.
        Old age pension and occupational pension
    
    
If you draw an income pension and/or a premium pension, your programme money is reduced if the pension together with the programme equates to more than “full-time”. The Swedish Pensions Agency informs Försäkringskassan if you are drawing premium pension or income pension.
If you draw an occupational pension, your programme money is reduced by the full amount of the pension. If you are drawing an occupational pension, you need to enter this when applying for programme money.
To draw an occupational pension before you are 65, you must apply to an occupational pension company. If you have not done this, you cannot draw an occupational pension.
Försäkringskassan checks that you receive the right compensation
Before making payment, we sometimes check your application details to ensure that you are receiving the right money. If we find that something has gone wrong, we may also check earlier applications.
If you discover that you have received too much money, you can report this via My pages (Mina sidor) or by telephoning 
0771 524 524
.
If you receive too much money, you may have to repay it. If you submit incorrect details on purpose and receive money to which you are not entitled, we can report this to the police. Anyone submitting incorrect details to receive more money can be sentenced to fines or imprisonment.
        Related links
    
Learn more about Försäkringskassan
Social insurance system
Healthcare
Information about healthcare in Sweden (1177.se)
 External link, opens in new window.
          Do you want information in another language than English?
    
        Information in other languages
        
    
Last updated: 
2025-06-25
            Your Europe (europa.eu)
        
            Help us improve (foq.youreurope.europa.eu)
        
            Contact Assistance Service (asf.youreurope.europa.eu)