If you are separating - Försäkringskassan
Cookies used by the Swedish Social Insurance Agency
 
On forsakringskassan.se, we use cookies to make the website work as well as possible for you.
We also use cookies for web analytics that help us to improve the website.
 
How the Swedish Social Insurance Agency uses cookies
 
Do you accept our use of cookies for web analytics?
 
Yes, I accept all cookies
 
No, I only accept necessary cookies
Go to content
Keep in mind...
You are using an older version of your web browser. This means that you might not be able to use all of the functions of the website. We recommend that you update to a newer version.
If you are separating
If you are separating from the other parent of your child, it is important to discuss how you will divide up responsibility for the care and support of the child, as this may be affected by the fact that you are no longer living together. A separation can also change what allowances and benefits you can receive from Försäkringskassan.
Agree on child support
If the child lives with only one of the parents
,
 the other parent must pay child support or ensure the child is supported in some other way. The size of the child support is affected by the child’s needs and the parents’ financial abilities.
Child support – when the child lives with you
Child support – when the child does not live with you
If the child lives roughly the same amount of time with both parents, nobody needs to pay child support for the child. However, in some cases it might be fair, for example, if one parent has a higher income than the other.
The child lives with both parents
Maintenance support
Maintenance support – upon alternating living arrangements for parents with low income
Maintenance support can be paid to the parent with whom the child lives if the other parent does not pay child support.
Maintenance support – if the child lives with you
Maintenance support – if the child does not live with you
Help through the municipality
If you have a hard time agreeing on access (visitation), custody, living arrangements and child support, you can turn to your municipality to get help through a cooperation discussion. The cooperation discussion is free of charge and is an opportunity for you to find common solutions for the child's best interest without having to go to court.
If you have had cooperation discussions and received help from Försäkringskassan but you still cannot agree on issues relating to the child, you can take the matter to the district court. Contact a legal representative to find out what you should do.
Child allowance
        How to share the child allowance
    
    
You and the other parent can change who is to receive the child allowance by logging in to My pages (Mina sidor).
            
                Register child allowance recipient (in Swedish)
            
            
 To the e-service
If you and the other parent do not agree on who is to receive the child allowance, Försäkringskassan can examine your notification without the other parent signing it.
Once you have sent in your notification, we will start investigating where the child lives and who is entitled to the child allowance. First, we will contact the other parent to check the information about where the child lives. We will contact you if we need you to provide more information.
Since we will need to check the information with the other parent, it will take longer to process the case than if you send in the notification together.
When will the distribution of the child allowance change?
If you are in agreement, the new distribution of the child allowance will take effect the month after you have both approved the notification.
If you are not in agreement, it may take longer because then we have to investigate where the child lives.
        How to report that you want to receive the full child allowance
    
    
If you and the other parent are in agreement and can register together, you do this on a form that you both sign.
If you register together, the request is processed more quickly than if you register by yourself.
5180 Child allowance and large family supplement (if applicable) (in Swedish)
 Pdf, 782 kB.
If you and the other parent are not in agreement and you register by yourself, register using My pages (Mina sidor).
            
                Apply for and plan parental benefit (in Swedish)
            
            
 To the e-service
Once you have registered, we will start an investigation of where the child lives and who is entitled to the child allowance. We begin by contacting the other parent and asking questions to determine whether information we have about where the child lives is correct. We will contact you if we need you to provide more information.
Since we need to check the information with the other parent, it will take longer to process the case if you register by yourself rather than you registering together.
        Related links
    
Learn more about Försäkringskassan
Social insurance system
Healthcare
Information about healthcare in Sweden (1177.se)
 External link, opens in new window.
          Do you want information in another language than English?
    
        Information in other languages
        
    
Last updated: 
2025-02-28
            Your Europe (europa.eu)
        
            Help us improve (foq.youreurope.europa.eu)
        
            Contact Assistance Service (asf.youreurope.europa.eu)