Leave in connection with the birth or adoption of a child (10-days) - Försäkringskassan
Cookies used by the Swedish Social Insurance Agency
 
On forsakringskassan.se, we use cookies to make the website work as well as possible for you.
We also use cookies for web analytics that help us to improve the website.
 
How the Swedish Social Insurance Agency uses cookies
 
Do you accept our use of cookies for web analytics?
 
Yes, I accept all cookies
 
No, I only accept necessary cookies
Go to content
Keep in mind...
You are using an older version of your web browser. This means that you might not be able to use all of the functions of the website. We recommend that you update to a newer version.
Leave in connection with the birth or adoption of a child (10-days)
An employee who has become a parent but has not been pregnant has the right to take time off when children are born or adopted. It is Försäkringskassan that pays compensation for 10 days to the employee. You as an employer pay nothing.
Who is entitled to leave?
It is generally the parent who has not been pregnant who is entitled to the ten days. However, if the person who has been pregnant does not have a partner, Försäkringskassan can grant the ten days to another person instead.
When a child under the age of 10 is adopted, both adoptive parents have the right to five days each with compensation unless they agree on a different distribution of the days.
How long can the employee be on leave?
The employee can take out compensation for 25, 50 or 75 percent of their normal working hours. In other words, he or she can take out 20 half days instead of 10 whole days. It is also possible to take out 1/8-part days, which corresponds to 12.5 percent of normal working hours.
When an employee’s child is born
The 10-day period must be used within 60 days of arriving home after the birth of the child.
When an employee adopts a child
The 10-day period must be used within 60 days after the employee took the child into their custody.
When can the employee use the days?
If the employee has a child
The 10-day period must be used within 60 days of arriving home after the birth of the child.
If the employee adopts a child
The 10-day period must be used within 60 days after the employee took the child into their custody.
Who does what?
It is the employee who reports to Försäkringskassan that he/she intends to go on leave. The employee must also inform you as the employer that they intend to go on leave from work.
The employee must:
Notify you that he/she intends to go on leave.
Apply for the 10-day period after the leave.
The employer must:
Submit a reply to the income inquiry if Försäkringskassan asks for it.
        Related links
    
Learn more about Försäkringskassan
Social insurance system
Healthcare
Information about healthcare in Sweden (1177.se)
 External link, opens in new window.
          Do you want information in another language than English?
    
        Information in other languages
        
    
Last updated: 
2025-03-03
            Your Europe (europa.eu)
        
            Help us improve (foq.youreurope.europa.eu)
        
            Contact Assistance Service (asf.youreurope.europa.eu)