If you travel abroad and become ill - Försäkringskassan
Cookies used by the Swedish Social Insurance Agency
 
On forsakringskassan.se, we use cookies to make the website work as well as possible for you.
We also use cookies for web analytics that help us to improve the website.
 
How the Swedish Social Insurance Agency uses cookies
 
Do you accept our use of cookies for web analytics?
 
Yes, I accept all cookies
 
No, I only accept necessary cookies
Go to content
Keep in mind...
You are using an older version of your web browser. This means that you might not be able to use all of the functions of the website. We recommend that you update to a newer version.
If you travel abroad and become ill
Here, you can order a European Health Insurance Card and read about what applies if you need medical or dental care while temporarily abroad.
If you are travelling within the EU/EEA or Switzerland
Order a European Health Insurance Card if you are travelling within the EU/EEA or Switzerland. Order the card in good time as it can take up to 10 working days to receive it. Children must have their own European Health Insurance Card. The card is automatically sent to the registered address of you or the child.
            
                Order the European Health Insurance Card (in Swedish)
            
            
 To the e-service
What is the European Health Insurance Card?
The European Health Insurance Card entitles you to medical and dental care while you are in an EU/EEA country or Switzerland. The card is free of charge. The European Health Insurance Card (EHIC) only covers medical and dental care that
cannot wait until you return to Sweden
you receive from a care provider connected to the public healthcare system in that country.
Care that cannot wait until you return to Sweden refers not only to emergency care, but also care related to a chronic illness. Such care includes collection of samples and medical checks.
With the European Health Insurance Card (EHIC), you pay the same amount for medical and dental care as those who live in the country. This is why you pay the patient fee yourself. In some countries, you must first pay the entire care cost yourself and then request compensation from that country's equivalent of Försäkringskassan. In Switzerland and Liechtenstein, you must both have an EHIC and be a citizen of an EU/EEA country or Switzerland in order for you to be able to receive care.
The EHIC does not entitle you to compensation for travel home, e.g. on an ambulance plane. It is therefore important that you have private travel insurance. Within the Nordic countries, there is a special agreement that under certain circumstances covers extra expenses for travel home.
If you become acutely sick
If you become acutely sick while abroad but do not have your EHIC card with you, you or your care provider can contact us at 
0771‑524 524
, to obtain a provisional replacement certificate. You or your care provider must provide you with your Swedish personal identity number. 
Apply for retrospective compensation – care
You can also choose to pay for the care yourself and apply for compensation from us afterwards. You apply for retrospective compensation on My pages (Mina sidor).
            
                Medical treatment abroad (in Swedish)
            
            
 To the e-service
When you apply, you must attach digital copies of receipts and medical documents. If you do not already have the documents as files on your computer, you can take photos of them with your phone or scan them. If you cannot add the appendices when you submit your application, it is fine to submit them later. Try to do this as soon as possible.
Apply for retrospective compensation – dental care
You can also choose to pay for the dental care yourself and apply for compensation from us afterwards. You apply for retrospective compensation on My pages (Mina sidor).
            
                Medical treatment abroad (in Swedish)
            
            
 To the e-service
When applying, send your application, receipts and medical documents to:
Försäkringskassans inläsningscentral
839 88 Östersund
If you have X-rays, photos and models, these must be sent to:
Försäkringskassan Internationellt tandvårdsstöd
901 81 Umeå
        If you cannot use My pages (Mina sidor)
    
    
Apply using the form and send in the receipts and medical documents to Försäkringskassans inläsningscentral, 839 88 Östersund.
5425 Apply for compensation after receiving necessary medical treatment abroad (in Swedish)
 Pdf, 996 kB.
5429 Apply for compensation after receiving emergency dental care in another EU/EES-country, in Switzerland or in the United Kingdom. (in Swedish)
 Pdf, 844 kB.
Do I need an EHIC for travel in the Nordic countries?
No, you do not need the European Health Insurance Card for travel within the Nordic countries. To receive essential health care, it is sufficient to show an ID and provide your home address in Sweden. If your child needs essential health care, they must have their own ID. If your child lacks an ID of their own, we recommend that you take your child’s European Health Insurance Card (EHIC) with you.
If you are travelling outside of the EU/EEA or Switzerland
The European Health Insurance Card is not valid outside of the EU/EEA and Switzerland. If you are travelling to countries outside of the EU/EEA and Switzerland, it is therefore important for you to have private insurance. Find out what is included in your home owner's insurance and whether you need supplemental travel insurance.
However, there are some countries outside of the EU/EEA and Switzerland that Sweden has an agreement with.
        Countries with which Sweden has an agreement
    
    
Algeria
If you are a Swedish or Algerian citizen, live in Sweden and are temporarily visiting Algeria, you are entitled to emergency medical care within the public healthcare system. You must be able to present a Swedish passport and a certificate of entitlement to care benefits in Algeria.
Order the certificate before you begin your travels, by calling us at 
0771‑524 524
.
If you already paid for medical care and want compensation retroactively, contact:
Caisse Nationale des Assurances Sociale des Travailleurs Salariés
Route des Deux Bassins – Ben Aknoun BP 218 EL BIAR 16030 ALGER ALGERIA
Australia
If you live in Sweden and are temporarily visiting Australia, you are entitled to essential health care. You must show either a Swedish passport, or a certificate 6393 from Försäkringskassan if you do not have a passport.
Order the certificate before you begin your travels by calling us at 
0771‑524 524
.
Inform the care provider before you receive medical care, if you wish to receive care from Medicare, which is the governmental care provider in Australia. You must pay for the entire cost of medical care yourself and then contact Medicare to obtain retrospective compensation:
Medicare Eligibility Section, MDP 106 Australian Government Department of Health and Ageing, GPO Box 9848 Canberra ACT 2601 AUSTRALIA
Medicare (www.humanservices.gov.au) 
 External link, opens in new window.
The medical care agreement between Sweden and Australia does not include ambulance transportation, dental care, or injuries sustained during activities such as adventure sports. Medical care costs in Australia are high, therefore supplementary sickness and accident insurance is recommended.
Quebec
If you are working or studying in Quebec for less than a year, you are entitled to medical care through the public healthcare system. You must have a work or study permit in Quebec and a certificate of entitlement to care benefits in Quebec.
Order the certificate before you begin your travels by calling us at 
0771‑524 524
.
Israel
If you are on a temporary visit to Israel, you are entitled to maternity care. You must have a certificate of entitlement to maternity care in Israel.
Order the certificate before you begin your travels by calling us at 
0771‑524 524
.
Jersey, Guernsey and the Isle of Man
If you live in Sweden and are visiting Jersey, Guernsey or the Isle of Man, you are entitled to emergency medical care within the public healthcare system. You must present a Swedish passport or a certificate of entitlement to care benefits.
Order the certificate before you begin your travels by calling us at 
0771‑524 524
.
Turkey
There is a convention between Sweden and Turkey that may entitle you to planned medical treatment. The convention does not apply to necessary health care, which means that you cannot receive retrospective compensation for care costs.
        Related links
    
Learn more about Försäkringskassan
Social insurance system
Healthcare
Information about healthcare in Sweden (1177.se)
 External link, opens in new window.
          Do you want information in another language than English?
    
        Information in other languages
        
    
Last updated: 
2024-07-02
            Your Europe (europa.eu)
        
            Help us improve (foq.youreurope.europa.eu)
        
            Contact Assistance Service (asf.youreurope.europa.eu)