Sick while on parental leave - Försäkringskassan
Cookies used by the Swedish Social Insurance Agency
 
On forsakringskassan.se, we use cookies to make the website work as well as possible for you.
We also use cookies for web analytics that help us to improve the website.
 
How the Swedish Social Insurance Agency uses cookies
 
Do you accept our use of cookies for web analytics?
 
Yes, I accept all cookies
 
No, I only accept necessary cookies
Go to content
Keep in mind...
You are using an older version of your web browser. This means that you might not be able to use all of the functions of the website. We recommend that you update to a newer version.
Sick while on parental leave
Here, you can learn what to do if you get sick during your parental leave.
Can I receive sickness benefit if I get sick?
If you become ill and cannot take care of your child, you can pause your parental benefit and receive sickness benefit instead.
You may be entitled to sickness benefit if:
you are sick and someone else is taking care of your child instead
have a sickness benefit qualifying income (SGI).
During the first two weeks that you are sick, you can only receive sickness benefit on the days for which you applied for parental benefit. You must have applied for parental benefit before you became ill.
You can receive 25, 50, 75 or 100 percent sickness benefit.
What should I do if I get sick?
1. Report your sickness
Report your sickness the very first day you are sick.
            
                Report your sickness (in Swedish)
            
            
 To the e-service
2. Change your application for parental benefit
Log in to My pages (My pages) and remove the days for which you applied for parental benefit, starting from the day you reported your sickness.
            
                Apply for and plan parental benefit (in Swedish)
            
            
 To the e-service
3. Apply for sickness benefit
After reporting your sickness, log in to My pages (Mina sidor) to apply for sickness benefit. 
            
                Apply for sickness benefit (in Swedish)
            
            
 To the e-service
4. Submit a doctor's certificate
If you are sick for more than 7 days, you need to submit a doctor's certificate with information about your illness or injury. Ask your doctor to send the certificate directly to Försäkringskassan. It is done electronically. You can also find your certificate on 1177 Vårdguiden under Mina intyg.
Intyg (1177.se)
 External link, opens in new window.
If you prefer to post your certificate yourself, please send it to:
Försäkringskassans Inläsningscentral
839 88 Östersund.
5. Disbursement
Information about when you receive your payments:
Utbetalningsdatum och handläggningstider
 (in Swedish)
 External link.
If you want to change any aspect of your sick leave
        If you want to extend your sick leave
    
    
If your sick leave shall continue in the same scope, you can extend your sick leave by sending in a new doctor's certificate. You can do this digitally on Mina intyg on 1177 Vårdguiden.
Intyg (1177.se)
 External link, opens in new window.
You must have approved that all doctor's certificates in the same sickness period shall apply as an application for sickness benefit. If you have not done this, you must fill in a new application. Contact your administrative officer or contact the Customer Centre at 
0771‑524 524
 to approve all doctor's certificates in the sickness period applying as an application for sickness benefit.
        What do I do once I have recovered from my illness?
    
    
If you begin working part time or in any other way change the scope of your sickness absence, you must notify us of this. This is done most easily via My pages (Mina sidor).
            
                Change scope of sickness benefit (in Swedish)
            
            
 To the e-service
What should I do once I'm healthy again?
1. Report your recovery
            
                End sickness benefit (in Swedish)
            
            
 To the e-service
If someone else needs to take care of your child while you are sick
If you become sick during your parental leave, someone else can receive compensation from Försäkringskassan if they take care of your child. The rules vary depending on how old the child is and whether you have sole custody or not.
If the child is older than 240 days
The other parent can apply for compensation for care of a child. To receive compensation for care of a child, the other parent must stay home from work or refrain from collecting the daily benefit from unemployment insurance.
Bear in mind that you cannot receive parental benefit for a day when someone else is taking care of the child instead of you. Do not forget to log in to My pages (Mina sidor) and remove the days that the other parent cared for the child from your application for parental benefit.
If the child is younger than 240 days
The other parent can take out parental benefit instead and stay at home to care for the child.
If you have sole custody
If you have sole custody and the child is younger than 3 years old, a friend or relative can take care of the child instead of you. This is called expanded temporary parental benefit. The friend or relative is only eligible to receive compensation if they lost income. Call the Customer Centre at 
0771‑524 524
 to request a form for the person who is caring for the child.
        Related links
    
Learn more about Försäkringskassan
Social insurance system
Healthcare
Information about healthcare in Sweden (1177.se)
 External link, opens in new window.
          Do you want information in another language than English?
    
        Information in other languages
        
    
Last updated: 
2025-01-27
            Your Europe (europa.eu)
        
            Help us improve (foq.youreurope.europa.eu)
        
            Contact Assistance Service (asf.youreurope.europa.eu)