Sickness benefit for jobseekers - Försäkringskassan
Cookies used by the Swedish Social Insurance Agency
 
On forsakringskassan.se, we use cookies to make the website work as well as possible for you.
We also use cookies for web analytics that help us to improve the website.
 
How the Swedish Social Insurance Agency uses cookies
 
Do you accept our use of cookies for web analytics?
 
Yes, I accept all cookies
 
No, I only accept necessary cookies
Go to content
Keep in mind...
You are using an older version of your web browser. This means that you might not be able to use all of the functions of the website. We recommend that you update to a newer version.
Sickness benefit for jobseekers
Sickness benefit is compensation you can receive if you are unable to work or take a job due to illness.
Am I eligible for sickness benefit?
You are eligible for sickness benefit if you:
cannot take a job or work because you are ill
are registered with the Swedish Public Employment Service and actively seeking a job
have worked previously so that you have a sickness benefit qualifying income
are insured in Sweden.
You can receive sickness benefit at 25 percent, 50 percent, 75 percent or 100 percent.
Insured in Sweden
How do I apply?
1. Report your sickness
If you are not participating in a Public Employment Service programme, you must report your sickness the first day you are sick. Report your sickness to your employer if you work part time.
            
                Report your sickness (in Swedish)
            
            
 To the e-service
2. Apply
After reporting your sickness, log in to My pages (Mina sidor) to apply for sickness benefit.
            
                Apply for sickness benefit (in Swedish)
            
            
 To the e-service
3. Send in a doctor's certificate
If you are sick for more than 7 days, you must send in a doctor's certificate with information about your illness or injury. In most counties, electronic certificates can be issued. You can then send in your certificate on Mina intyg on 1177 Vårdguiden. This speeds up the process and you then do not have to send the certificate by post.
Intyg (1177.se)
 External link, opens in new window.
If you have received your doctor's certificate on paper and for some reason it has not been sent electronically to us, send the original to:
Försäkringskassans Inläsningscentral
839 88 Östersund
4. Disbursement
Information about when you receive your payments:
Utbetalningsdatum och handläggningstider
 (in Swedish)
 External link.
What happens if my application is rejected?
If it is rejected, you need to return to being an active jobseeker with the Swedish Public Employment Service.
If you want to change any aspect of your sick leave
If you want to extend your sick leave
Send in your new doctor’s certificate. You can do this digitally on Mina intyg on 1177 Vårdguiden.
Intyg (1177.se)
 External link, opens in new window.
If you answered yes when asked whether a new doctor’s certificate should serve to extend the sick leave when you applied for sickness benefit, then you do not need to do anything else.
If you answered no, an application form for extended sickness benefit will be sent to your home. You cannot apply for extended sickness benefit via Mina sidor (My pages).
If you want to change the scope
If you begin seeking work part time or in any other way change the scope of your sick leave, you must notify us of this. This is done most easily via My pages (Mina sidor).
            
                Change scope of sickness benefit (in Swedish)
            
            
 To the e-service
If you want to report your recovery
If you recover before your sickness period has run out, report your recovery on My pages (Mina sidor).
            
                End sickness benefit (in Swedish)
            
            
 To the e-service
If you cannot use My pages (Mina sidor), call the Customer Centre at 
0771‑524 524
 or contact your personal administrative officer.
What happens if I am sick for a long time?
If you are ill for a long time, you are assigned a personal administrative officer. He/she helps you with everything regarding your sickness benefit, e.g. planning how you can start seeking a job again.
        If you need support to be able to return to work
    
    
To be able to seek a job again, you can receive support from both Försäkringskassan and the Swedish Public Employment Service. Career guidance and work training are examples of support. In the meantime, you can receive rehabilitation benefit. As regards amount, this is the same as sickness benefit.
        What happens if I am still on sick leave after 1 year?
    
    
When you have received sickness benefit for 364 days, your compensation will be reduced from the normal level of 80 percent to a continuation level of 75 percent of your sickness benefit qualifying income (SGI).
Begreppet allvarlig sjukdom (Rättsligt ställningstagande 2025:03)
 Pdf, 245 kB, opens in new window.
What happens if I can no longer receive sickness benefit?
If Försäkringskassan assesses that you can work, we arrange a meeting with the Swedish Public Employment Service. At this meeting, you meet administrative officers from Försäkringskassan and the Swedish Public Employment Service. The meeting is an opportunity for you to receive support (from the Swedish Public Employment Service) on your way back into working life.
        Related links
    
Learn more about Försäkringskassan
Social insurance system
Healthcare
Information about healthcare in Sweden (1177.se)
 External link, opens in new window.
          Do you want information in another language than English?
    
        Information in other languages
        
    
Last updated: 
2025-06-19
            Your Europe (europa.eu)
        
            Help us improve (foq.youreurope.europa.eu)
        
            Contact Assistance Service (asf.youreurope.europa.eu)