Preventive sickness benefit for individuals with a sole proprietorship - Försäkringskassan
Cookies used by the Swedish Social Insurance Agency
 
On forsakringskassan.se, we use cookies to make the website work as well as possible for you.
We also use cookies for web analytics that help us to improve the website.
 
How the Swedish Social Insurance Agency uses cookies
 
Do you accept our use of cookies for web analytics?
 
Yes, I accept all cookies
 
No, I only accept necessary cookies
Go to content
Keep in mind...
You are using an older version of your web browser. This means that you might not be able to use all of the functions of the website. We recommend that you update to a newer version.
Preventive sickness benefit for individuals with a sole proprietorship
If you need to refrain from working due to a medical treatment or rehabilitation, you can receive preventive sickness benefit. The treatment or rehabilitation must be intended to prevent or shorten the sickness.
Am I eligible for preventive sickness benefit?
You are eligible for preventive sickness benefit if you:
are at increased risk of becoming sick or have an illness that could affect your work capacity.
must refrain from working at least one-fourth of your working hours per day as a result of the treatment or rehabilitation.
were prescribed the treatment by a doctor.
lose work-related income that is sickness benefit qualifying income.
are insured in Sweden.
How is my sickness benefit calculated?
Has your company been in business for more than 36 months? If so, your estimated business income determines how much you receive in sickness benefit. We calculate your estimated business income using your business tax forms from the last 3 years.
Has your company been in business for less than 36 months? Then, you might not have earned much estimated income as yet. For this reason, for the first 36 months you receive an amount equal to the sickness benefit an employee with the same work tasks, training and experience would receive.
How do I apply?
You must first see a doctor, who will write a statement with a treatment plan. The treatment plan must be approved by Försäkringskassan. You then apply like having sickness benefit paid out. It works like this:
1. Your doctor writes a statement with a treatment plan
2. You apply to have Försäkringskassan approve the treatment plan
You can attach the doctor’s certificate and treatment plan digitally when you apply. If you received paper copies of them, you can take a picture of them with your phone or scan them so you can attach them digitally.
            
                Apply for approval of treatment plan (in Swedish)
            
            
 To the e-service
3. Försäkringskassan sends a decision on whether the treatment plan is approved or rejected.
Normally it takes 30 days for us to process your treatment plan. It could take longer if we require more information.
4. You apply for preventive sickness benefit
You can apply on a running basis or once the entire treatment is finished.
            
                Apply for preventive sickness benefit (in Swedish)
            
            
 To the e-service
5. Disbursement dates
Information about when you receive your payments:
Utbetalningsdatum och handläggningstider
 (in Swedish)
 External link.
        Related links
    
Learn more about Försäkringskassan
Social insurance system
Healthcare
Information about healthcare in Sweden (1177.se)
 External link, opens in new window.
          Do you want information in another language than English?
    
        Information in other languages
        
    
Last updated: 
2025-01-27
            Your Europe (europa.eu)
        
            Help us improve (foq.youreurope.europa.eu)
        
            Contact Assistance Service (asf.youreurope.europa.eu)