Housing allowance for families with children - Försäkringskassan
Cookies used by the Swedish Social Insurance Agency
 
On forsakringskassan.se, we use cookies to make the website work as well as possible for you.
We also use cookies for web analytics that help us to improve the website.
 
How the Swedish Social Insurance Agency uses cookies
 
Do you accept our use of cookies for web analytics?
 
Yes, I accept all cookies
 
No, I only accept necessary cookies
Go to content
Keep in mind...
You are using an older version of your web browser. This means that you might not be able to use all of the functions of the website. We recommend that you update to a newer version.
Housing allowance for families with children
Housing allowance is support for families with children who need help to pay rent or monthly fees for their housing.
Am I eligible for housing allowance?
You can easily find out whether you can receive housing allowance by using Calculate housing allowance. You can receive housing allowance regardless of whether you own or rent your home.
            
                Calculate housing allowance (in Swedish)
            
            
 To the e-service
You can receive housing allowance for families with children if
you have a child/children living with you
you pay more than SEK 1 400 a month for your housing
you live and are registered at the address you are seeking allowance for.
Exceptions from the registration requirement can be made if special circumstances exist. Such exceptions are:
If you are living in the residence less than one year. Then, you will not normally be registered there, but may nonetheless be eligible to housing allowance.
If you are at risk of being a victim of crime, stalking or serious harassment and are therefore allowed to remain registered at your old address (referred to as “skyddade personuppgifter” in Swedish).
How do I apply?
1. Prepare digital documents about your housing
You will need to attach copies of documents about your housing when you apply for housing allowance.
        If you live in a rental flat
    
    
your latest rent specification
your lease - if it is the first time you are applying for housing allowance for this home.
If you do not already have the documents as files on your computer, you can take photos of them with your phone or scan them.
If you cannot add the appendices when you submit your application, it is fine to submit them later. Remember to do this as soon as possible, but within no more than 7 days after submitting your application.
        If you live in a co-operative flat (tenant-owned housing)
    
    
your latest association fee specification
your transfer agreement - if it is the first time you are applying for housing allowance for this home
papers that show that the tenant-owner's right is mortgaged, if you have loans on your tenant-owner's right
your most recent loan specification with the current debt and interest rate, if you have loans on the co-operative flat.
If you do not already have the documents as files on your computer, you can take photos of them with your phone or scan them.
If you cannot add the appendices when you submit your application, it is fine to submit them later. Remember to do this as soon as possible, but within no more than 7 days after submitting your application.
        If you live in a single-family home
    
    
papers that show that the house is mortgaged, if you have loans on the house
your most recent loan specification with the current debt and interest rate, if you have loans on the house
papers that show what your site leasehold costs - if you have a site leasehold.
If you do not already have the documents as files on your computer, you can take photos of them with your phone or scan them.  
If you cannot add the appendices when you submit your application, it is fine to submit them later. Remember to do this as soon as possible, but within no more than 7 days after submitting your application.
        If you do not have digital copies
    
    
Send in your appendices by standard post to:
Försäkringskassans inläsningscentral 
839 88 Östersund.
We can handle your case more quickly if you send in your appendices together with the cover sheet.
5167 Cover sheet for appendices to Försäkringskassan
 Pdf, 697 kB.
2. Gather information about your income
Several different types of income are included when you apply for housing allowance. You will find a lot of the information you need in your latest tax return.
        Income to be included
    
    
income from employment, e.g. salary and taxable benefits such as parental benefit, childcare allowance, sickness benefit, sickness compensation, activity compensation, and pension.
income from own business
some foreign income
student aid in the form of study grants and study start aid
tax-exempt scholarships
introduction benefit
Your assets that exceed a total of SEK 100,000. For example private real estate, securities such as shares or cash in bank accounts.
the assets of any child living at home
half of the assets of any child with alternating residence
investment income, such as interest on bank accounts and bonds, capital gains, and dividends from shares and mutual funds. If you have a child living in your home either full time or alternatingly, their investment income is usually included as well. 
 
3. Apply for housing allowance
        If you are single
    
    
1. Sign in to My Pages and fill in the details. If you have children over 18, they should also log in to My Pages and sign. The child can only see and sign the information related to them.
            
                Apply for housing allowance (in Swedish)
            
            
 To the e-service
        If you have a partner
    
    
You or your partner need to log in to My Pages and fill in information for both of you. Keep in mind that the first person who logs in is the one who receives the payment of the housing allowance.
Once the application has been signed, the other person must log in and approve the information within 10 days.
            
                Apply for housing allowance (in Swedish)
            
            
 To the e-service
4. Disbursement
Information about when you receive your payments:
Utbetalningsdatum och handläggningstider
 (in Swedish)
 External link.
5. Notify us if anything changes
It is important that you notify us if your income or your housing situation changes, for example if you stop studying and start working and thereby have a higher income. We can then make sure you receive the right amount of benefit. If you receive too much money, you may be obligated to pay money back later.
        How to inform us of changed information
    
    
If you are earning more than you thought you would
Change your housing allowance on My pages (Mina sidor) or call the Customer Centre at 
0771‑524 524
 and let us know.
            
                Register changed information – if you are receiving housing supplement (in Swedish)
            
            
 To the e-service
If you are earning less than you thought you would
Change your housing allowance on My pages (Mina sidor).
            
                Register changed information – if you are receiving housing supplement (in Swedish)
            
            
 To the e-service
If you move
Submit a new application for the new address.
Other changes
On My pages (Mina sidor), you can inform us if:
you receive more income that is not salary
your rent or monthly fee has changed
someone moves in with you
any of your children moves away from home.
            
                Register changed information – if you are receiving housing supplement (in Swedish)
            
            
 To the e-service
If you cannot or do not want to apply via My pages (Mina sidor), you can apply using the form.
5098 Form to inform us of changes
 Pdf, 1 MB.
        Related links
    
Learn more about Försäkringskassan
Social insurance system
Healthcare
Information about healthcare in Sweden (1177.se)
 External link, opens in new window.
          Do you want information in another language than English?
    
        Information in other languages
        
    
Last updated: 
2025-03-31
            Your Europe (europa.eu)
        
            Help us improve (foq.youreurope.europa.eu)
        
            Contact Assistance Service (asf.youreurope.europa.eu)