Checklist for expectant parents - Försäkringskassan
Cookies used by the Swedish Social Insurance Agency
 
On forsakringskassan.se, we use cookies to make the website work as well as possible for you.
We also use cookies for web analytics that help us to improve the website.
 
How the Swedish Social Insurance Agency uses cookies
 
Do you accept our use of cookies for web analytics?
 
Yes, I accept all cookies
 
No, I only accept necessary cookies
Go to content
Keep in mind...
You are using an older version of your web browser. This means that you might not be able to use all of the functions of the website. We recommend that you update to a newer version.
Checklist for expectant parents
Here you will find a simple checklist of things you might want to consider before going on parental leave.
To-do list for both parents
1. Log in to the Expecting a Child guide (Vänta barn-guiden)
In the Expecting a Child guide, you will find a personalised To-do list, easy-to-read articles and tips, and more detailed information on topics such as parental benefit, child allowance and the 10-day benefit. You will also be able to see if you need to update your income with us and when you need to register and apply.
The information in the guide is adapted based on whether you are the expectant father, if you are the pregnant woman or her partner, and whether you work, are a job seeker, a student, or self employed. Your employment status affects how your parental benefit is calculated.
            
                Guide: When you are expecting a child (in Swedish)
            
            
 To the e-service
2. Plan your parental leave and apply for parental benefit
You can plan your parental leave by using the e-service to plan and apply for parental benefit. There you can also see how much money you will get.
If you cannot log in to My pages (Mina sidor), you can use our calculation tool Calculate parental benefit (in Swedish). There you can see how long you can be on leave and how much money you can get every month.
            
                Calculate parental benefit (in Swedish)
            
            
 To the e-service
When you have finished planning, you can apply for parental benefit.
            
                Apply for and plan parental benefit (in Swedish)
            
            
 To the e-service
If you cannot log in to My Pages, please call the Customer Centre at 
0771‑524 524
 and order a paper form to apply for parental benefit.
Tip!
Confirm paternity or parenthood
If you are not married at the time the child is born, the pregnant parent will be given all the days of parental benefit and sole custody of the child. In order for the other parent also to become a legal custodian and receive parental benefit days, both parents must contact the municipality and confirm paternity or parenthood.
Notify your employer
Once you have decided to take parental leave, you must report it to your employer no later than two months before your leave. If there are collective agreements at your workplace, other times may apply, so check out what applies at your job.
Child allowance will be paid out automatically
You will receive child allowance automatically if you are a legal custodian. The first disbursement is normally paid the month after the child is born. After that, child allowance will be paid out on the 20th of each month.
Child allowance
Contact our administrators if you have questions
On Facebook, our administrators will answer your questions about parental leave and other matters that concern you as an expectant parent.
Facebook for parents
 External link, opens in new window.
Share equally
Sharing the days of parental benefit equally helps give both parents a firmer footing on the job market and a higher salary and pension.
Housing allowance
If you have children and a low income, you may be entitled to housing allowance. By using Calculate housing allowance, you can quickly see how much you can get based on what you earn and how many children you have.
            
                Calculate housing allowance (in Swedish)
            
            
 To the e-service
Do not forget your pension
When you become a parent and take parental leave or perhaps work part-time hours while your children are young, your pension may be affected.
Swedish Pensions Agency
 External link, opens in new window.
        To-do list if you are pregnant
    
    
Send in your pregnancy certificate
If you are pregnant, you or your midwife must send your pregnancy certificate to us. If your midwife cannot send the certificate you need to send it to:
Försäkringskassans inläsningscentral
839 88 Östersund.
The certificate will serve as notification that you will want parental benefit later. Your midwife will write the certificate around the 20th week of pregnancy.
        To-do list for the other parent
    
    
10-day benefit
You have the right to be on leave from work for 10 days in conjunction with the birth of the child. These days are intended to give you the opportunity to be at the delivery, get to know the child and take care of other children in the family.
10-day benefit
Register for parental benefit if you are going on parental leave
If you are going on parental leave after the baby has been born, you must register that you want parental benefit. You can register whenever you want but no later than on the same day for which you want compensation.
            
                Register for parental benefit (in Swedish)
            
            
 To the e-service
        Related links
    
Learn more about Försäkringskassan
Social insurance system
Healthcare
Information about healthcare in Sweden (1177.se)
 External link, opens in new window.
Last updated: 
2025-06-27