Maintenance support upon adoption - Försäkringskassan
Cookies used by the Swedish Social Insurance Agency
 
On forsakringskassan.se, we use cookies to make the website work as well as possible for you.
We also use cookies for web analytics that help us to improve the website.
 
How the Swedish Social Insurance Agency uses cookies
 
Do you accept our use of cookies for web analytics?
 
Yes, I accept all cookies
 
No, I only accept necessary cookies
Go to content
Keep in mind...
You are using an older version of your web browser. This means that you might not be able to use all of the functions of the website. We recommend that you update to a newer version.
Maintenance support upon adoption
Maintenance support is money you can apply for if you have adopted a child from another country as a single parent. It is intended to financially compensate for the child support the child would otherwise have received from another parent.
Am I eligible for maintenance support?
You are eligible for maintenance support if
you have custody of the child
the child is younger than 18 years old
the child is registered at your address
you and the child live in Sweden.
        If the child is over 18 years old
    
    
Children over the age of 18 can receive extended maintenance support up to June of the year they turn 20. To be eligible for extended maintenance support, the child must
attend school full-time at compulsory school level, upper secondary level
have student funding or extended child allowance
neither be nor ever have been married.
It is the child who must apply for extended maintenance support and the money is paid directly to the child. Use this form:
5010 Application for extended maintenance support when you live with only one parent (in Swedish)
 Pdf, 828 kB.
How do I apply for maintenance support?
1. Apply on My pages (Mina sidor)
            
                Apply for maintenance support (in Swedish)
            
            
 To the e-service
2. You receive a decision
If your application is complete, it takes no more than 8 weeks before you will receive a decision.
3. Disbursement
Information about when you receive your payments:
Utbetalningsdatum och handläggningstider (in Swedish)
 External link.
        Related links
    
Learn more about Försäkringskassan
Social insurance system
Healthcare
Information about healthcare in Sweden (1177.se)
 External link, opens in new window.
          Do you want information in another language than English?
    
        Information in other languages
        
    
Last updated: 
2025-03-04
            Your Europe (europa.eu)
        
            Help us improve (foq.youreurope.europa.eu)
        
            Contact Assistance Service (asf.youreurope.europa.eu)