Benefit for care of closely related persons for job seekers - Försäkringskassan
Cookies used by the Swedish Social Insurance Agency
 
On forsakringskassan.se, we use cookies to make the website work as well as possible for you.
We also use cookies for web analytics that help us to improve the website.
 
How the Swedish Social Insurance Agency uses cookies
 
Do you accept our use of cookies for web analytics?
 
Yes, I accept all cookies
 
No, I only accept necessary cookies
Go to content
Keep in mind...
You are using an older version of your web browser. This means that you might not be able to use all of the functions of the website. We recommend that you update to a newer version.
Benefit for care of closely related persons for job seekers
Benefit for care of closely related persons is money that you receive for caring for a close relative who is seriously ill. Seriously ill refers to a life-threatening condition.
Am I eligible for benefit for care of closely related persons?
You are eligible for this benefit if:
The close relative has an illness that is a distinct threat to his/her life.
You care for the close relative at the hospital or in the home. Care means that you are with the person to provide support.
The close relative consents to the care. 
The care is provided in Sweden or in another EU/EEA country. You cannot receive benefit for care of closely related persons if you are caring for someone in a country outside of the EU/EEA.
You are registered with the Public Employment Service and are entitled to sickness benefit qualifying income.
You and the person you are caring for are insured in Sweden.
How do you define seriously ill?
A person is considered seriously ill if there is a distinct threat to the person’s life. This means that there is a risk that the person will not survive the illness. A person with an illness that may be life threatening in the long term is not considered seriously ill. The risk must instead be related to the near future.
Who is a closely-related person?
Closely-related person refers to a relative or any other person who has a close relationship with the sick person. For example, it could be a friend or a neighbour. 
What is meant by care?
Care, in this context, means being close at hand and providing the sick person support. In other words, it is not about helping the staff with the practical work.
How do I apply for benefit for care of closely related persons?
1. Ask for consent from the person who is sick.
The person who is sick must consent to the care by filling in this form. If the person cannot provide consent, it is important that the doctor writes this in the doctor’s statement.
7468 Consent for benefit for care of closely related persons (in Swedish)
 Pdf, 714 kB.
2. Ask for a doctor's statement
Ask the doctor of the person who is sick to write a doctor’s statement for you.
3. Apply
Apply on My pages (Mina sidor). Apply within no more than 3 months from the first date you are requesting compensation for.
            
                Apply for benefit for the care of closely related persons (in Swedish)
            
            
 To the e-service
4. Attach digital copies
Once you have signed your application, attach digital copies of the doctor’s statement and consent form. You can take a clear photo of the documents and then attach the pictures on My pages (Mina sidor). It is also possible to attach scanned copies.
If you cannot make digital copies, send your documents to:
Försäkringskassans inläsningscentral
839 88 Östersund
5. Disbursement
Information about when you receive your payments:
Utbetalningsdatum och handläggningstider
 (in Swedish)
 External link.
        Related links
    
Learn more about Försäkringskassan
Social insurance system
Healthcare
Information about healthcare in Sweden (1177.se)
 External link, opens in new window.
          Do you want information in another language than English?
    
        Information in other languages
        
    
Last updated: 
2025-01-27
            Your Europe (europa.eu)
        
            Help us improve (foq.youreurope.europa.eu)
        
            Contact Assistance Service (asf.youreurope.europa.eu)