Care of sick child (vab) – Checklist - Försäkringskassan
Cookies used by the Swedish Social Insurance Agency
 
On forsakringskassan.se, we use cookies to make the website work as well as possible for you.
We also use cookies for web analytics that help us to improve the website.
 
How the Swedish Social Insurance Agency uses cookies
 
Do you accept our use of cookies for web analytics?
 
Yes, I accept all cookies
 
No, I only accept necessary cookies
Go to content
Keep in mind...
You are using an older version of your web browser. This means that you might not be able to use all of the functions of the website. We recommend that you update to a newer version.
Care of sick child (vab) – Checklist
There are a lot of things to keep track of when you are caring for a sick child. Here are a few things to keep in mind – before and after you send us an application.
Are the pre-populated fields in the online application system (Mina sidor) correct and up-to-date? For example, details of your salary, employer, the preschool or school your child attends. The telephone number of the school is important as it is used to verify days of absence.
Have you entered the right time, date and child name? This is especially important if you work part-time or if you are on sick leave, and if you have several children.
Have you coordinated your application with others? If a child has more than one carer or guardian, make sure that you have not sent in an application for the exact same days or hours. Check out our calendar (vab-kalender) for easier planning!
Additional reminders:
If your child falls ill while you are on leave in Sweden or the EU, you can change your vacation pay to “care of sick child” (vab). Contact your employer to do alter your vacation days.
Benefits are usually based on your annual income, have details of your salary ready before you fill in an application.
Sickness benefit qualifying income 
Contact us if you discover any errors, as it is not possible to alter an application that has already been signed and submitted.
If you are ill and have reported your sickness to your employer, you cannot receive compensation for care of a sick child (vab).
            
                Ansök om vab
            
            
 To the e-service
            
                Begär medgivande för ersättning vid utlandsvistelse
            
            
 To the e-service
Keep in touch
You are required by law to certify that the information attached to an application is correct. As well as update them because it often affects the previous ruling and calculations.
Print out forms are available if you are not able to access our digital services. Apply for social benefits online by logging on to our e-service (Mina sidor) or our app (Försäkringskassans app) with a Swedish electronic identification.
Our e-services are unfortunately only available in Swedish. But you can always get assistance by booking a meeting, in person or online, or by calling our Call Centre. We are also available on social media and at local offices (service centre) throughout Sweden.
Contact us
Information in other languages
        Related links
    
Parental benefit
Parental benefit – Checklist
Social benefits for parents
Parents
About the social insurance system
Social insurance system
Other government agencies
Swedish Migration Agency (migrationsverket.se)
 External link, opens in new window.
Swedish Tax Agency (skatteverket.se)
 External link, opens in new window.
Companies Registration Office (bolagsverket.se)
 External link, opens in new window.
National Government Service Center (statenssc.se)
 External link, opens in new window.
Last updated: 
2025-06-27
            Your Europe (europa.eu)
        
            Help us improve (foq.youreurope.europa.eu)
        
            Contact Assistance Service (asf.youreurope.europa.eu)