Occupational injuries - Försäkringskassan
Cookies used by the Swedish Social Insurance Agency
 
On forsakringskassan.se, we use cookies to make the website work as well as possible for you.
We also use cookies for web analytics that help us to improve the website.
 
How the Swedish Social Insurance Agency uses cookies
 
Do you accept our use of cookies for web analytics?
 
Yes, I accept all cookies
 
No, I only accept necessary cookies
Go to content
Keep in mind...
You are using an older version of your web browser. This means that you might not be able to use all of the functions of the website. We recommend that you update to a newer version.
Occupational injuries
If an employee is injured in the workplace, or on the way to or from work, you as an employer should report occupational injury.
An occupational injury is:
An occupational injury is an injury or illness that has arisen due to an accident or that in some other way is caused by the work.
an injury that has occurred on the way to or from work.
an infectious disease that has arisen as a result of infection in a high-risk occupation, e.g. through a job at a medical treatment facility or another job that involves treating, caring for or taking care of people who are infectious.
What is my responsibility as an employer if an injury occurs?
1. Report the injury
As an employer, you must always report the occupational injury to Försäkringskassan. Find out what happened when the employee injured himself/herself and report the occupational injury as soon as possible.
Report occupational injury (anmalarbetsskada.se)
 External link.
2. Notify the safety officer at the workplace that you have reported an occupational injury
If your workplace has a safety representative, tell them that you have submitted a work injury report and give the representative a copy of it.
Useful information for your employee’s sake
The employee can apply for compensation from Försäkringskassan.
The employee can investigate whether he/she/she is entitled to compensation from occupational injury insurance.
If you were injured at work
The employee can receive compensation from AFA Insurance
If you have collective agreements, the employee can contact AFA Insurance to find out if they are entitled to compensation from them.
        Related links
    
Learn more about Försäkringskassan
Social insurance system
Healthcare
Information about healthcare in Sweden (1177.se)
 External link, opens in new window.
          Do you want information in another language than English?
    
        Information in other languages
        
    
Last updated: 
2025-06-25
            Your Europe (europa.eu)
        
            Help us improve (foq.youreurope.europa.eu)
        
            Contact Assistance Service (asf.youreurope.europa.eu)