Occupational injury sickness benefit - Försäkringskassan
Cookies used by the Swedish Social Insurance Agency
 
On forsakringskassan.se, we use cookies to make the website work as well as possible for you.
We also use cookies for web analytics that help us to improve the website.
 
How the Swedish Social Insurance Agency uses cookies
 
Do you accept our use of cookies for web analytics?
 
Yes, I accept all cookies
 
No, I only accept necessary cookies
Go to content
Keep in mind...
You are using an older version of your web browser. This means that you might not be able to use all of the functions of the website. We recommend that you update to a newer version.
Occupational injury sickness benefit
If you have an occupational injury, you can receive an occupational injury benefit. This applies if you are studying, need to refrain from work for preventative purposes or do not have a work permit or residence permit. This also applies if you are no longer insured for sickness benefit, but the occupational injury is due to previous work in Sweden.
Can I receive occupational injury sickness benefit?
        If you are studying
    
    
You can receive occupational injury sickness benefit if you meet the following conditions:
You are injured or become ill when you perform work-like tasks in connection with an education, a labour market policy programme or a work-oriented rehabilitation.
You are still injured or sick 180 days after you were injured.
You are not able to participate fully in the training due to the injury or illness. You must be away at least 25 procent of your regular training time in order to receive work sickness benefit.
        If you do not have a work permit or residence permit
    
    
You can receive occupational injury sickness benefit if you work in Sweden but need to refrain from working by at least 25 percent because of the injury or illness.
        If you need to refrain from work as a preventive measure
    
    
You can receive occupational injury sickness benefit if you meet the following conditions:
You have refrained from working completely or partly because Försäkringskassan has asked you to refrain, or because you have agreed with us to do so.
You are away at least 25 percent of your regular working hours.
You cannot get any other work from your employer while you refrain from working, and the employer does not reimburse you for the income you lose.
        If you are no longer insured for sickness benefit
    
    
You can receive occupational injury sickness benefit if you have previously worked in Sweden, but are no longer insured for sickness benefit. Your occupational injury should then be due to the work you previously had in Sweden.
How do I apply?
1. Send a letter to Försäkringskassan
In the letter, you must explain:
That you are applying for occupational injury sickness benefit.
That you have a low income, are studying or have refrained from working because you have been asked to do so.
What injury or illness you consider to be an occupational injury and which prevents you from working.
In what work, during which studies or in what labour market policy programme you were injured and what you did when the damage occurred.
If you are asked to refrain from working completely or partly, you will also need to explain:
What injury or illness your work might cause or make worse.
if you need to refrain from working completely or partly or if you can instead work with something else, but at a lower salary.
Include your name and personal ID number on the letter.
2. You will receive a confirmation letter
When the application is received, you will receive a letter stating that we have received your application.
3. An administrator will contact you
An administrator will contact you when the investigation has been started.
4. You will receive a decision
Our aim is for you to receive a decision within three months from the date the investigation began. At present, we have long processing times. This means that it could take longer.
        Related links
    
Learn more about Försäkringskassan
Social insurance system
Healthcare
Information about healthcare in Sweden (1177.se)
 External link, opens in new window.
          Do you want information in another language than English?
    
        Information in other languages
        
    
Last updated: 
2025-02-27
            Your Europe (europa.eu)
        
            Help us improve (foq.youreurope.europa.eu)
        
            Contact Assistance Service (asf.youreurope.europa.eu)