Annuity – compensation for loss of income due to occupational injury - Försäkringskassan
Cookies used by the Swedish Social Insurance Agency
 
On forsakringskassan.se, we use cookies to make the website work as well as possible for you.
We also use cookies for web analytics that help us to improve the website.
 
How the Swedish Social Insurance Agency uses cookies
 
Do you accept our use of cookies for web analytics?
 
Yes, I accept all cookies
 
No, I only accept necessary cookies
Go to content
Keep in mind...
You are using an older version of your web browser. This means that you might not be able to use all of the functions of the website. We recommend that you update to a newer version.
Annuity – compensation for loss of income due to occupational injury
If you lose income due to an occupational injury, you can receive compensation from Försäkringskassan. This is called annuity. To receive annuity, a doctor must determine that your occupational injury will affect your ability to work for at least one year going forward.
You may be entitled to annuity if
you lose income because you must work fewer hours or cannot work at all, must change job or work tasks, lose out on a bonus, or must undergo retraining due to the injury.
you income has decreased by at least 1/15 compared to what you were earning before the injury.
there is a doctor’s certificate or other medical documentation indicating that your occupational injury will affect you ability to work for at least a year going forward from the date the doctor wrote the certificate or documentation.
you are insured in Sweden. If you work here, you are.
If you meet all of these conditions, Försäkringskassan will proceed and investigate whether your injury or illness can be approved as an occupational injury. If it is approved as an occupational injury, you can receive annuity.
        Example of a doctor’s certificate or other documentation that applies for one year
    
    
You were injured in January 2016 and were only able to work half-time over the past year. You have been going to rehabilitation since February 2016 with the goal of being able to work full-time. Initially, the doctor cannot judge how long you will need rehabilitation before you can begin working full-time gain. You see the doctor every month.
But, on 20 January 2017 your doctor writes a doctor’s certificate indicating that you will not be able to work full-time in any job again. This means that you can apply from annuity beginning January 2017.
This means that, even if you earned less from the very first day you were injured, you cannot receive annuity until January 2017. You cannot receive annuity retroactively for the time period before January 2017.
        Example of how to calculate one-fifteenth
    
    
Income before the injury: SEK 25,000 Income after the injury: SEK 23,000
25,000 – 23,000 = 2,000. Thus, the loss of income is SEK 2,000.
One-fifteenth of 25,000 = 25,000/15 = 1,666.
Since SEK 2,000 is more than SEK 1,666, the loss of income is greater than one-fifteenth. Thus, the condition that income must have decreased by at least one-fifteenth is met.
How do I apply?
1. Apply on My pages (Mina sidor)
            
                Apply for compensation for occupational injury (in Swedish)
            
            
 To the e-service
2. You receive a confirmation letter
Once we have received your application, we will send you a confirmation letter.
3. An administrator contacts you
An administrator will contact you when the investigation has been started.
4. You will receive a decision
It normally takes 8 months before you receive a decision on occupational injury annuity. However, it may take longer if the necessary documents are missing.
Apply for compensation from other insurance coverage
Even if you cannot receive annuity from Försäkringskassan, there may be other forms of compensation you can apply for.
If you are an employee, you may be entitled to compensation from AFA Försäkring. Ask your union or employer about this.
If you have private accident insurance, you may be entitled to compensation from your insurance company
        Related links
    
Learn more about Försäkringskassan
Social insurance system
Healthcare
Information about healthcare in Sweden (1177.se)
 External link, opens in new window.
          Do you want information in another language than English?
    
        Information in other languages
        
    
Last updated: 
2025-04-29
            Your Europe (europa.eu)
        
            Help us improve (foq.youreurope.europa.eu)
        
            Contact Assistance Service (asf.youreurope.europa.eu)