Annuity – compensation for lost work income due to personal injury - Försäkringskassan
Cookies used by the Swedish Social Insurance Agency
 
On forsakringskassan.se, we use cookies to make the website work as well as possible for you.
We also use cookies for web analytics that help us to improve the website.
 
How the Swedish Social Insurance Agency uses cookies
 
Do you accept our use of cookies for web analytics?
 
Yes, I accept all cookies
 
No, I only accept necessary cookies
Go to content
Keep in mind...
You are using an older version of your web browser. This means that you might not be able to use all of the functions of the website. We recommend that you update to a newer version.
Annuity – compensation for lost work income due to personal injury
If you lose income due to a personal injury, you can receive compensation from Försäkringskassan. This is called annuity. To receive annuity, a doctor must determine that your personal injury will affect your ability to work for at least one year going forward.
Can I receive annuity?
You may be entitled to annuity if
you were injured while performing your military service according to the Total Defence Service Duty Act, you appear for enrolment or another form of drafting under this Act, you undergo military training as part of the Armed Forces as a recruit, or if you participate in rescue services.
the injury has been approved as a personal injury by Försäkringskassan.
you lose income because you must work fewer hours or cannot work at all, must change job or work tasks, lose out on a bonus, or must undergo retraining due to the injury.
your income has decreased by at least 1/15 compared to what you were earning before the injury.
there is a doctor’s certificate or other medical documentation indicating that your personal injury will affect you ability to work for at least a year going forward from the date the doctor wrote the certificate or documentation.
How do I apply?
1. Report the injury
Tell your closest supervisor, manager or the like that you were injured or have become sick through your operations or were injured on your way to or from the operations. He/she must then report the injury to Försäkringskassan. 
If the injury first becomes apparent after you have left military or civil defence service, report the injury to Försäkringskassan yourself. Use the form 9210 Registration of occupational injury or personal injury to report it yourself.
9210 Registration of occupational injury or personal injury (in Swedish)
 Pdf, 853 kB.
2. Försäkringskassan investigates your personal injury
Försäkringskassan will investigate whether your injury or illness can be approved as a personal injury. You will be contacted if necessary.
3. You receive a decision about whether your personal injury is approved or not
After the investigation, you will receive a decision about whether your personal injury is approved or not. We will also send a copy of the decision to the Chamber of Commerce.
4. Apply for annuity
Apply using the form.
5087 Application for compensation from state authority personal injury protection (in Swedish)
 Pdf, 794 kB.
5. An administrator will contact you
An administrator will contact you when the investigation has been started.
6. You receive a decision
Our aim is for you to receive a decision within four months from the date the investigation begins. At present, we have long processing times. This means, it could take longer.
Apply for compensation from other insurance coverage
Even if you cannot receive annuity from Försäkringskassan, there may be other forms of compensation you can apply for.
You can receive compensation from the Chamber of Commerce.
Chamber of Commerce (kammarkolegiet.se)
 External link, opens in new window.
You can also receive compensation from Kungafonden.
Kungafonden (kungafonden.se)
 External link, opens in new window.
If you have private accident insurance, you may be entitled to compensation from your insurance company.
        Related links
    
Learn more about Försäkringskassan
Social insurance system
Healthcare
Information about healthcare in Sweden (1177.se)
 External link, opens in new window.
          Do you want information in another language than English?
    
        Information in other languages
        
    
Last updated: 
2025-02-27
            Your Europe (europa.eu)
        
            Help us improve (foq.youreurope.europa.eu)
        
            Contact Assistance Service (asf.youreurope.europa.eu)