Terminating employees - Försäkringskassan
Cookies used by the Swedish Social Insurance Agency
 
On forsakringskassan.se, we use cookies to make the website work as well as possible for you.
We also use cookies for web analytics that help us to improve the website.
 
How the Swedish Social Insurance Agency uses cookies
 
Do you accept our use of cookies for web analytics?
 
Yes, I accept all cookies
 
No, I only accept necessary cookies
Go to content
Keep in mind...
You are using an older version of your web browser. This means that you might not be able to use all of the functions of the website. We recommend that you update to a newer version.
Terminating employees
Here you can read about what applies when you as an employer terminate an employee.
What can you do as an employer?
If you are terminating an employee, you can advise them that they should register as a jobseeker at Arbetsförmedlingen. If the employee has not done so within three months of the termination of employment, he/she risks not receiving any compensation in case of, for example, illness or parental leave.
        If the employee is on sick leave or on parental leave
    
    
If an employee is terminated when he/she is on leave for any reason other than vacation (e.g. sick leave or parental leave), the three months begin from the first day of absence – not from the day when the employment ended.
Provide income information for a terminated employee
Försäkringskassan may ask you to provide income information for a terminated employee. In this case, you do not need to notify us of the employee's possible severance pay, as it does not count as income from own work and therefore is not a basis for sickness benefit.
        Related links
    
Learn more about Försäkringskassan
Social insurance system
Healthcare
Information about healthcare in Sweden (1177.se)
 External link, opens in new window.
          Do you want information in another language than English?
    
        Information in other languages
        
    
Last updated: 
2024-11-22
            Your Europe (europa.eu)
        
            Help us improve (foq.youreurope.europa.eu)
        
            Contact Assistance Service (asf.youreurope.europa.eu)