Activity compensation for extended schooling - Försäkringskassan
Cookies used by the Swedish Social Insurance Agency
 
On forsakringskassan.se, we use cookies to make the website work as well as possible for you.
We also use cookies for web analytics that help us to improve the website.
 
How the Swedish Social Insurance Agency uses cookies
 
Do you accept our use of cookies for web analytics?
 
Yes, I accept all cookies
 
No, I only accept necessary cookies
Go to content
Keep in mind...
You are using an older version of your web browser. This means that you might not be able to use all of the functions of the website. We recommend that you update to a newer version.
Activity compensation for extended schooling
Activity compensation for extended schooling is money you can receive if you need more time to complete your schooling due to a disability.
Am I eligible for activity compensation for extended schooling?
You are eligible for activity compensation if you:
need more time to complete compulsory school or upper-secondary school due to a disability or an illness
are between 19 and 29 years old.
are insured in Sweden and were insured at the time when you became sick. You are insured in Sweden if you live or work here.
How do I apply?
1. Apply
You apply most easily on My pages (Mina sidor).
            
                Apply for activity compensation for extended schooling (in Swedish)
            
            
 To the e-service
2. Send in a certificate
        If you are planning to study in a programme that does not require you to have a disability
    
    
Send in a medical document indicating that you have or have had a disability. You must also submit assignments from the school that show how far you have come in your studies and what remains of them. For example, these assignments can be found in your grades and your individual study plan.
Send everything to:
Försäkringskassans Inläsningscentral
839 88 Östersund
        If you are planning to study in a programme that requires you to have a disability, such as special needs upper secondary school
    
    
You must send in a certificate from the school indicating how long you will be studying there. Send in your certificate to:
Försäkringskassans inläsningscentral
839 88 Östersund
3. We will contact you
An administrator will call you when the application has been received. At that time, you will learn how long it could take for you to receive your decision. You will also be told if any additional documents or information is needed at that time.
4. Disbursement
Information about when you receive your payments:
Utbetalningsdatum och handläggningstider
 (in Swedish)
 External link.
5. What happens when I have activity compensation?
If you receive compensation, an administrator will contact you about a month after you receive it and well in advance of its expiry. The administrator will ask you how your studies are going and give you the information you may need.
6. Call us of anything changes
If you are receiving activity compensation, you must call us and let us know if you
start working
stop going to the school or switch schools
receive a new or modified foreign pension, annuity, or the like
move abroad.
You may be entitled to other forms of compensation
If you receive activity compensation, you may be entitled to housing supplement.
Housing supplement
You will receive a benefits certificate
When you have been granted activity compensation, we will send you a benefits certificate together with the decision. With the benefits certificate, you can get discounts from certain companies. The companies themselves decide whether they will give a discount, so we have no knowledge as to which companies give discounts.
If you need a new benefits certificate, please call your personal administrative officer and request that we send one to you.
        Related links
    
Learn more about Försäkringskassan
Social insurance system
Healthcare
Information about healthcare in Sweden (1177.se)
 External link, opens in new window.
          Do you want information in another language than English?
    
        Information in other languages
        
    
Last updated: 
2024-10-10
            Your Europe (europa.eu)
        
            Help us improve (foq.youreurope.europa.eu)
        
            Contact Assistance Service (asf.youreurope.europa.eu)