Disability allowance - Försäkringskassan
Cookies used by the Swedish Social Insurance Agency
 
On forsakringskassan.se, we use cookies to make the website work as well as possible for you.
We also use cookies for web analytics that help us to improve the website.
 
How the Swedish Social Insurance Agency uses cookies
 
Do you accept our use of cookies for web analytics?
 
Yes, I accept all cookies
 
No, I only accept necessary cookies
Go to content
Keep in mind...
You are using an older version of your web browser. This means that you might not be able to use all of the functions of the website. We recommend that you update to a newer version.
Disability allowance
Disability allowance is money you can receive if you have a disability or illness and as a result you need assistance in daily activities or have additional expenses.
It is no longer possible to apply for disability allowance
if you are not already receiving it, therefore the information on this page is only intended for individuals who have already been granted the allowance. If you are not already receiving disability allowance, you can instead apply for additional cost allowance.
This is a new form of compensation that replaces disability allowance.
        This applies during the period January 2019–June 2021
    
    
If your decision on disability allowance ends during this period, you can apply for renewal and be granted disability allowance for no more than an additional 18 months. This applies if you are still entitled to disability allowance. Reasons for why your decision may end are if
your decision has a time limit
your circumstances have changed and this affects your need for disability compensation, for example if your need for assistance or additional costs has increased or decreased
you receive a decision on sickness compensation, activity compensation or old age pension
If you receive a decision on sickness compensation, activity compensation or old age pension that relates to a time period before 1 January 2019, your decision on disability allowance will be reviewed in accordance with the previous rules.
If you have additional expenses related to your disability, you can instead choose to apply for additional cost allowance when your disability allowance ceases.
Additional cost allowance for adults
Who can be granted a new period of disability allowance?
If you are receiving disability allowance that ends by no later than 30 June 2021, you may be granted a new period for a maximum of 18 months if one or more of the following applies to you because of your disability or sickness:
you need at least two hours of assistance each day to handle activities of daily living.
you need assistance to be able to study or work.
you have additional expenses
If you receive compensation for additional expenses only, these must exceed SEK 13,253 a year (amount applies for 2019).
In addition, you must
have a disability that persists at least one year.
be insured in Sweden. You are insured if you live here. There are some exceptions to this rule
How to apply for a new period
If you have a decision with a time limit, you will be contacted by your administrator when the decision ends. The administrator will let you know if you are able to apply for a new period and will help you with the application.
If your decision ends for any other reason, you will be notified when the compensation ends. You will then need to contact your administrator yourself if you want to apply for a new period. Your administrator can help you fill in the application form.
        This goes into force beginning July 2021
    
    
If you have a decision with a time limit or it is time to review your disability allowance after 30 June 2021, it will end and you cannot apply for a new period. However, if you have additional expenses related to your disability you can apply for additional cost allowance.
Additional cost allowance for adults
        What happens if I receive activity compensation, sickness compensation or old age pension?
    
    
If you receive a decision on activity compensation, sickness compensation or old age pension that 
relates to a time period before January 2019
, your decision on disability allowance will be reviewed in accordance with the previous rules.
If you receive a decision on activity compensation, sickness compensation or old age pension that only 
relates to a time period after 1 January 2019
, your disability allowance will end.
        If you are blind or have a severe hearing impairment
    
    
If you are blind or have a severe hearing impairment and are thereby entitled to disability allowance at a minimum of a guaranteed level, you are also subject to the information found under the headings “This applies during the period January 2019–June 2021” and “This applies from June 2021”. In addition, the following applies:
If you are blind
If you are blind, you are entitled to disability allowance at the maximum compensation level. If you are also receiving sickness compensation, activity compensation or old age pension that relates to a time period
 before January 2019
, your decision on disability allowance will be reviewed in accordance with the previous rules. This means that your compensation is reduced to the lowest level of compensation. If you receive a decision on activity compensation, sickness compensation or old age pension that 
only relates to a time period after 1 January 2019
, your disability allowance will end.
If you have a severe hearing impairment
If you have a severe hearing impairment, you are entitled to disability allowance at the minimum level. However, you may be entitled to a higher level if you have additional expenses or need support due to your disability.
        Disability allowance compared to additional cost compensation
    
    
The right to disability allowance has been based on a weighting of a person's need for assistance and additional costs incurred as a result of the disability. In the additional cost compensation, the need for assistance has been removed, as several efforts regarding the need for assistance are currently met by the municipality and the region. The additional cost compensation therefore only reimburses costs.
Disability allowance
This is a brief description of disability allowance.
The right to compensation is assessed on the basis of a weighting of assistance needs and additional costs.
Only adults with disabilities can receive the allowance.
There is a statutory right to disability compensation for the blind and people with severe hearing loss.
The compensation may be granted at three levels of remuneration.
The compensation may be granted retroactively up to six months before the application was submitted.
The right to disability compensation must be followed up (reviewed) in the event of a change in circumstances.
The right to disability compensation must be monitored when a person receives a decision on activity compensation, sickness benefit or old-age pension
The disability allowance includes a benefits certificate which may give you certain discounts.
Additional cost allowance
This is additional cost allowance in brief.
The right to compensation is based solely on reasonable additional costs.
Adults with disabilities or parents of children with disabilities may receive the allowance.
There is a statutory right to additional cost allowance for blind people and people with severe hearing loss.
The allowance may be granted at three levels of remuneration.
The allowance may be granted retroactively up to six months before the application was submitted.
The right to the allowance must be followed up (reconsidered) at least once every four years (unless there is reason to review the case at longer intervals). Follow-up also takes place in the event of a change in circumstances that affect the right to the allowance.
For a person who is blind and is receiving additional cost allowance at a guaranteed level, the allowance must also be followed up (reconsidered) when the person receives a decision on full sickness compensation, full activity compensation or full old-age pension.
The benefits certificate is not included in the additional cost allowance.
Report changes
Notify your administrator if any of your conditions change in a manner that could affect your right to receive disability allowance or the level of compensation you are entitled to. For example, if you need less assistance or if you no longer have an additional expense. Report the change as soon as possible, but no later than 14 days after you learned about it. Otherwise, you may be required to pay back the money.
Disbursement
Information about when you receive your payments:
Utbetalningsdatum och handläggningstider
 (in Swedish)
 External link.
        Related links
    
Learn more about Försäkringskassan
Social insurance system
Healthcare
Information about healthcare in Sweden (1177.se)
 External link, opens in new window.
          Do you want information in another language than English?
    
        Information in other languages
        
    
Last updated: 
2025-01-28
            Your Europe (europa.eu)
        
            Help us improve (foq.youreurope.europa.eu)
        
            Contact Assistance Service (asf.youreurope.europa.eu)