Employee with sick child (vab) - Försäkringskassan
Cookies used by the Swedish Social Insurance Agency
 
On forsakringskassan.se, we use cookies to make the website work as well as possible for you.
We also use cookies for web analytics that help us to improve the website.
 
How the Swedish Social Insurance Agency uses cookies
 
Do you accept our use of cookies for web analytics?
 
Yes, I accept all cookies
 
No, I only accept necessary cookies
Go to content
Keep in mind...
You are using an older version of your web browser. This means that you might not be able to use all of the functions of the website. We recommend that you update to a newer version.
Employee with sick child (vab)
When an employee stays home from work to take care of a sick child they can receive compensation from Försäkringskassan.
When can the employee receive compensation for care of a sick child?
An employee can receive compensation to stay home from work to care for their child when the child is under the age of 12. This applies in the following cases:
The child is ill or a disease carrier
The child's ordinary caregiver is sick or infected. The regular carer is the person who usually takes care of the child when the employee is working, for example another parent, a childminder or a relative.
The other parent must accompany the child to a doctor's appointment, a health care visit or a dentist.
When an employee needs to take time off from work to care for a sick child, they must report this to you the same day.
        If the employee has a child who is seriously ill
    
    
Parents of a seriously ill child under the age of 18 have the right to take time off work to care for their child. A child is considered seriously ill if
the child's life is in danger or
the child receives treatment for an illness without which, the child's life is in danger
Reporting the care of a sick child
The employee must:
Report to you that they need to take care of a sick child.
The employer must:
Submit a reply to the income inquiry if Försäkringskassan asks for it.
Verify that the employee has stayed home to care for a sick child and specify to what extent, if the Försäkringskassan asks for this information.
        Related links
    
Learn more about Försäkringskassan
Social insurance system
Healthcare
Information about healthcare in Sweden (1177.se)
 External link, opens in new window.
          Do you want information in another language than English?
    
        Information in other languages
        
    
Last updated: 
2025-06-25
            Your Europe (europa.eu)
        
            Help us improve (foq.youreurope.europa.eu)
        
            Contact Assistance Service (asf.youreurope.europa.eu)