Care allowance for children with disabilities - Försäkringskassan
Cookies used by the Swedish Social Insurance Agency
 
On forsakringskassan.se, we use cookies to make the website work as well as possible for you.
We also use cookies for web analytics that help us to improve the website.
 
How the Swedish Social Insurance Agency uses cookies
 
Do you accept our use of cookies for web analytics?
 
Yes, I accept all cookies
 
No, I only accept necessary cookies
Go to content
Keep in mind...
You are using an older version of your web browser. This means that you might not be able to use all of the functions of the website. We recommend that you update to a newer version.
Care allowance for children with disabilities
If you have a child with a disability, you can receive child carer’s allowance. The allowance is based on the care and supervision that your child needs beyond what is standard for a child of the same age without a disability.
Am I eligible for child carer’s allowance?
You can receive child carer’s allowance if
your child has a disability. A disability can be congenital or the result of an illness, injury, or the like.
you give the child care and supervision as a result of the disability for at least six months.
you are the child’s parent or can be equated with the child’s parent.
you and your child are insured in Sweden. If you live here, you are. However, there are some exceptions to this rule.
What is considered care and supervision?
Care can refer to direct care efforts you provide for your child, but also other assistance such as
special training
practical help in day-to-day life, such as getting dressed and undressed, hygiene, homework, clothing care and help with meals
establishing routines and structure
getting your child active and motivated
special diet, moisturising or other self-care.
Supervision is the presence of an adult that your child needs, for example, so that they do not run away, come up with dangerous things to do, or suffer or cause an accident. Supervision does not necessarily mean that you need to actively prevent situations that are hazardous for the child. It can also be, for example, that you are available in case something happens while the child is at school.
Two parents can receive child carer’s allowance
You and the child’s other parent can receive child carer’s allowance for the same child. In such case, you share the allowance. Försäkringskassan assesses the child’s total need for care and supervision, and you can choose how the allowance is divided between you. If you do not make a choice, you will receive half each. If you cannot reach an agreement, Försäkringskassan will make a division in units of one-fourth based on where the child lives and spends their time.
        Right to shortened working hours
    
    
Under the Parental Leave Act, you have the right to shorten your working hours by up to 25 percent if you or the other parent is receiving child carer’s allowance for the child. This applies even after the child has reached the age of eight or completed their first year of school. Bear in mind that reducing your working hours could lead to lower income, which could affect your sickness benefit qualifying income (SGI).
How do I apply?
1. Apply on My pages (Mina sidor)
Apply for child carer’s allowance on My pages (Mina sidor). You use the same application to change how much of the allowance goes to you and how much of it goes to the other parent.
            
                Apply for care allowance or change distribution (in Swedish)
            
            
 To the e-service
        If there are two of you applying jointly
    
    
It is possible to apply jointly in the e-service. Once one of you has logged in and filled in the details about you, the other parent and child and signed the application, it will be visible in the other parent's My pages. There they will review and sign the application themselves. It must be done within 14 days, otherwise the entire application will be deleted and you will need to fill out a new one.
2. Send in a medical statement
The time it takes to process your application depends on its complexity and if we need additional information from you. Normally, you can expect a decision within 3 to 5 months.
If you are not applying via the e-service, send the medical certificate and other attachments to:
Försäkringskassans inläsningscentral
839 88 Östersund
3. We will contact you
Once we have started processing your case, we will book an appointment with you where we jointly review your child’s needs for care and supervision related to the disability. The administrator will then assess whether the circumstances entitle you to child carer’s allowance and, if so, at what level.
If you indicated that you need an interpreter, the administrative officer will make sure one participates in the phone call.
4. You will receive a decision
The time it takes to process your application depends on its complexity and if we need additional information from you. Normally, you can expect a decision within 3 to 5 months.
If you are granted child carer’s allowance, you will receive a decision about what amount you will receive per month. The decision can either have a specific time limit, or apply until June of the year that the child turns 19.
5. Disbursement
Information about when you receive your payments:
Utbetalningsdatum och handläggningstider (in Swedish)
 External link.
6. Notify us if anything changes
Call your case administrator if, for example,
your child's disability changes
your child's need for care and supervision changes
the attendance allowance for the child increases or decreases
support from your municipality or county increases or decreases
Report the change as soon as possible, but no later than 14 days after you learned about the change. Otherwise, you may be required to pay back the money.
        Related links
    
Learn more about Försäkringskassan
Social insurance system
Healthcare
Information about healthcare in Sweden (1177.se)
 External link, opens in new window.
          Do you want information in another language than English?
    
        Information in other languages
        
    
Last updated: 
2025-02-28
            Your Europe (europa.eu)
        
            Help us improve (foq.youreurope.europa.eu)
        
            Contact Assistance Service (asf.youreurope.europa.eu)